Niger: Development news, research, data | World Bank Where We Work Niger This page in: English Français This page in: English Français --> The World Bank in Niger The World Bank supports projects in water, rural development, HIV/AIDS, education, health, natural disaster management, and emergency food security. Niger Overview Results in the Sahel Projects That Change Lives in the Sahel Cradle of a remarkable cultural heritage and land of opportunity, with a rich and dynamic population, the Sahel is going through many challenges. Due to the increasing insecurity, the number of people fleeing violence in the region has quadrupled, with 2 million now displaced in their own country. With temperatures rising 1.5 times faster in the Sahel than in the rest of the world, climate change is a real threat. And the social and economic impact of the coronavirus could wipe out five years of development progress in all the Sahelian countries (Burkina Faso, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Chad). Nevertheless, over the years, continued international assistance, mainly through the World Bank and its International Development Association, and key partners, such as the Sahel Alliance and the United Nations, has resulted in significant development progress and improved living conditions for millions of Sahelians. Here are some of the projects that have made a real difference in helping the Sahel become more prosperous, resilient, inclusive and peaceful. #ResilientSahel Immersive Journeys Virtual Field Visit For the Sahel countries and the international community, this is a moment for action to advance reforms and better deliver sustainable solutions at scale and speed in three main areas: Climate, People and Infrastructure Virtual Field Visit World Bank / Vincent Tremeau Coming Together to Help African Girls Create a Brighter Future In the Sahel, one in two girls is married before the age of 18. Empowering women and girls calls for a change in society’s unwritten rules governing behavior. Discover the #SWEDD. Coming Together to Help African Girls Create a Brighter Future World Bank / Vincent Tremeau Where Climate Change is Reality In the #Sahel, pastoral herders are essential links for socio-economic development and stability. Yet climate change, population growth and insecurity are threatening their livelihoods. The #PRAPS is taking action Where Climate Change is Reality The Double Success Story of Mobile Childcare in Burkina Faso An innovative initiative provides mobile childcare units that could follow mothers from one worksite to the next. Other countries are now planning to adopt this easily organized and effective system. The Double Success Story of Mobile Childcare in Burkina Faso Multimedia Video Agriculture: A Solution For Climate Change In Niger, to overcome climate shocks challenges, local farmers are adopting climate-smart agricultural practices. Agriculture: A Solution For Climate Change Video "I Want to Become a Doctor!" In Niger, 99% of 10-year-olds cannot read or understand a short story. And between the ages of 3 and 18, young Nigeriens spend an average of 5.3 years in school instead of 12. "I Want to Become a Doctor!" Video In Search of Greener Pastures: on the Road with Sahel’s Pastoralists On the road for months, from Mauritania to the Gambia through Senegal, in search of greener pastures. This is the journey of Aliou Deme and pastoralist families in the Sahel. Follow their story. In Search of Greener Pastures: on the Road with Sahel’s Pastoralists Video Burkina Faso: Welcome to the School of Husbands In Burkina Faso, a new type of school is transforming the habits and biases of married men. Their spouses were quick to notice many positive consequences at home. Burkina Faso: Welcome to the School of Husbands Video I refused to have my daughter get married young In the Sahel, one in two girls is married before the age of 18. To fight against early marriages and unspaced pregnancies, religious and community leaders are taking action. I refused to have my daughter get married young Video Water is Key to Sustainable Development Access to safe water and to sanitation is still a challenge for a significant part of Burkina Faso. A new project supported will benefit more than 1.1 million people with improved water supply and 1.3 million people with ... Water is Key to Sustainable Development Blogs and Opinions © 2018 Dorte Verner Ousmane Diagana We Can Only Accomplish our Mission of Ending Extreme Poverty in Africa by ... With a record $8.5 billion in financing, the World Bank is stepping up its work in the Sahel to support positive initiatives and to reduce the deep-seated causes of fragility. We Can Only Accomplish our Mission of Ending Extreme Poverty in Africa by ... Praps Mali / Vincent Tremeau Axel van Trotsenburg Towards a more sustainable future in the Sahel Region To deliver results at scale, we've been strategic in our key priorities and are committed to meet our ambitious targets by focusing on three main areas: Climate, People and Infrastructure. Towards a more sustainable future in the Sahel Region Andrea Borgarello / World Bank Simeon Ehui & Maria Sarraf Greening the Sahel and Beyond Learn how the Great Green Wall will restore 100 million ha of degraded land and transform the lives of millions of people. Greening the Sahel and Beyond olliviergirard.com Luc Razafimandimby & Vinaya Swaroop Can Niger Overcome its Demographic Challenge? With approximately 7 children per woman, Niger currently has the highest fertility rate in the world. What are the economic and social implications of these demographic numbers? Can Niger Overcome its Demographic Challenge? Thematic Areas COVID-19 Education Energy Health Private Sector Access to Water Governance Women's Empowerment Agriculture Digital Economy Jobs and skills Urbanization In Depth Copyright (c) 2017 Shutterstock. No use without permission. The World Bank’s Development Priorities 2021-2025 West and Central Africa is a region where the World Bank Group is committed to achieving progress in its mission to end extreme poverty and promote shared prosperity. The World Bank’s Development Priorities 2021-2025 Country Climate and Development Report for the G5 Sahel region Newly released Country Climate and Development Report (CCDR) for the G5 Sahel region estimates that up to 13.5 million people across the Sahel could fall into poverty due to climate change-related shocks by 2050. Country Climate and Development Report for the G5 Sahel region World Bank / Vincent Tremeau What record for the Alliance Sahel after 3 years? Download the first results report on the action of the Sahel Alliance, at the end of its 3 years of existence. What record for the Alliance Sahel after 3 years? © 2015 Arne Hoel. All rights reserved. Image is licensed to World Bank Group. Open Data on the Sahel The World Bank provides free and open access to a comprehensive set of data about development in countries around the globe. Open Data on the Sahel Additional Resources Related Country Partnership Framework (CPF) 2018-2022 Niger Economic Outlook Kandadji Niger Basin Water Resources Program Macro Poverty Outlook IDA at Work in Niger The World Bank in Africa Sahel Adaptive Social Protection Program (SASPP) Show Less - Country Office Contacts Main Office Contact 964 Avenue du Fleuve Niger, Plateau BP 12402, Niamey, Niger For general information and inquiries Mouslim Sidi Mohamed External Affairs Officer msidimohamed@worldbank.org For project-related issues and complaints --> For project-related issues and complaints nigeralert@worldbank.org This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×