Event | Eswatini Economic Update Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Eswatini Economic Update Share The Government of the Kingdom of Eswatini, in partnership with the World Bank Group, is committed to driving sustainable and inclusive economic growth through strategic digital transformation. The latest edition of the Eswatini Economic Update report analyzes recent economic trends, the economic outlook and underscores the critical role of digitalization in addressing the country’s pressing challenges. Overview Agenda The Government of the Kingdom of Eswatini, in partnership with the World Bank Group, is committed to driving sustainable and inclusive economic growth through strategic digital transformation. The latest edition of the Eswatini Economic Update report analyzes recent economic trends, the economic outlook and underscores the critical role of digitalization in addressing the country’s pressing challenges. The Eswatini Economic Update (EEU) 2025, a flagship World Bank report developed in close collaboration with the Government of Eswatini, presents a transformative opportunity to leverage digitalization as the cornerstone of economic resilience and inclusive growth. Against the backdrop of projected 5% GDP growth in 2025 and volatile SACU revenues, this second edition of the EEU underscores the urgent need to digitalize key sectors, strengthen fiscal sustainability, and address structural constraints to unlock Eswatini's long-term prosperity. The World Bank invites you to the livestreamed launch event on July 31st, 2025, which will be addressed by Hon. Thambo Gina, Minister of Economic Planning & World Bank Governor; Hon. Neal Rijkenberg (Minister of Finance), Hon. Savannah Maziya (Minister of ICT) and the World Bank’s Resident Representative for Eswatini Mr. Ikechi Okorie. There will be presentations, by Marko Kwaramba, World Bank Senior Country Economist) who will analyze Eswatini's recent economic developments and outlook, and Paul Seaden, World Bank Senior Digital Specialist, who will outline a digital transformation roadmap. This will be followed by a panel discussion, and question and answer session with experts from the Central Bank of Eswatini, University of Eswatini, Ministry of Information and Communications Technologies, and the Innovators Association of Eswatini. Director of Ceremonies: Ms. Thabsile Mlangeni, Principal Secretary, Ministry of Economic Planning and Development 09:00 – 09:30 Arrival and Registration 09:30 – 09:40 Welcome and Introductions: Ms. Thabsile Mlangeni, Principal Secretary, Ministry of Economic Planning 09:40 – 10:00 Remarks: Hon Neal Rijkenberg, Minister of Finance Mr Ikechi Okorie, Resident Representative, The World Bank 10:00 – 10:15 Presentation by MICT on Government Strategy for Digital Transformation Hon Savannah Mayiza, Minister of ICT 10:15-11:00 Recent Economic Developments and Outlook Marko Kwaramba, Sr. Country Economist, The World Bank Harnessing the Potential of Digital Technologies for Eswatini’s Growth and Job Creation: Paul Seaden, Senior Digital Specialist, The World Bank 11:00 - 11:15 Official Launch of EEU: Hon Thambo Gina, Minister of Economic Planning and Development, Governor of The World Bank 11:15 - 11:30 Photo Opportunity - Break 11:30 – 12:00 Panel Discussion Moderator: Ms. Oarabile Minky Moilwa External and Corporate Relations, The World Bank Eswatini Panelists: Mr. Sikhumbuzo Dlamini, Director, Research Department at the Central Bank of Eswatini Dr. Henri-Count Evans, Journalism and Media Studies| Climate Change| Digital Transformation, University of Eswatini Dr. Rejoice Maseko, Director of Research, Science, Technology & Innovation, Ministry of ICT Mr. José Rego, Innovators Association of Eswatini 12:00 – 12:20 Questions and Answers 12:20 – 12:30 Way forward & Closing Remarks Mr. Andreas Dlamini, Principal Secretary, MICT 12:30 LUNCH Event Details Date: July 31, 2025 Time: 03:30 AM - 06:20 AM ET Location: Online Virtual: Explore how digital technologies can drive Eswatini’s growth at the launch of the second Eswatini Economic Update . WATCH LIVE HERE Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×