Component EGPS | Extractives Global Programmatic Support Multi-Donor Trust Fund Extractives Global Programmatic Support (EGPS) Home Overview Component Initiatives EITI Partners Publications News & Events GENDER Addressing the gender and other identity-factor-differentiated impacts of oil, gas, and mining activities. EGPS supports the implementation of policies and strategies to increase the meaningful economic engagement of women (in good employment, local procurement, and decision-making, and gaining greater respect for women’s rights), and combatting discrimination, harassment, and violence. This engagement to close the gender gap cuts across the entire EGPS portfolio. Component 1: Revenue Transparency Improving extractives sector revenue transparency and efficiency of public management systems Transparency and accountability are essential for an inclusive and sustainable extractives sector. This component focuses on improving transparency of industry payments and state revenues from the extractives sector. It supports countries` efforts to implement the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) . The EITI is a widely accepted global standard for transparency in the extractives sector. Under this component, EGPS supports the following activities: EITI implementation support at the country-level Strengthening of citizens and civil society organizations (CSOs)’ capacity to hold government and industry to account and to meaningfully participate in EITI implementation. Mainstreaming of the transparency agenda by integrating EITI reporting in government information systems (systematic disclosure) and making available timely and relevant data for decision-making processes, such as in budget preparation. Generating global knowledge and learning products designed to advance the extractives sector’s transparency. Grants to support EITI implementation at the country level are prepared in close coordination with the EITI International Secretariat. Component 2: Regulation and Institutional Strengthening Facilitating evidence-based and inclusive sector policies, regulation, and management. The extractives sector’s contribution to countries’ economic growth and environmental and social performance is largely regulated by policies, legal, contractual, and fiscal frameworks set by national authorities. EGPS assists governments in their sector reform efforts by assessing the performance of their country’s extractives sector; supporting the development of evidence-based, inclusive, and transparent policies; designing efficient legal frameworks; and strengthening the institutional capacity to enforce these reforms. This component is crosscutting and includes activities that relate to the other three EGPS components. It includes assistance for specific reforms such as sector transparency, regulation of shared infrastructure, local benefits, environmental protection, regulation of mine closure, decommissioning of oil rigs, and closing the gender gap. Under this component, EGPS supports the following activities: In-country targeted assistance to governments and their reform agenda. o Preparation of country-specific, broad and systematic sector diagnostics for evidence-based decision-making through the Mining Sector Diagnostic tool (MSD) . o Provision of technical advice and institutional capacity building to create evidence-based, inclusive, and transparent policies reflective of a country’s priorities. o Assistance to reform efforts throughout the legal hierarchy and across the extractives sector. o Strengthening of tax administration. Effective tax administration is critical to ensure the efficient mobilization of domestic resources. Qualifying activities include capacity building to address issues related to transfer pricing and transparency of beneficial ownership, as well as taxpayer portals and tax administration procedures. Global Knowledge work to advance the understanding of current and upcoming challenges (in extractives sector management) and to improve the quality and responsiveness of the World Bank’s support to its client countries. Examples of this work include: Africa Mineral Legislation Atlas – AMLA , Global Mineral Cadaster System assessment Component 3: Local Value and Diversification Enabling shared value at the national and local level This component is designed to support the development of sustainable and resilient local economies in resource-rich countries by promoting innovation, long-term competitiveness, and regional synergies. Economic dependence on extractive industries exposes national economies to external price shocks and puts a burden on economic development more broadly. EGPS supports countries in creating local value and tapping opportunities for local development through shared infrastructure and green growth. Effective local economic development may require broader structural economic reforms and can only succeed if all relevant stakeholders, including government representatives, major international companies, state-owned enterprises, suppliers, and associations, are brought together. Under this component, EGPS supports the following activities: Strengthening global knowledge and dialogue on local economic development. EGPS funds the ELLED knowledge program to support innovative thinking and partnership approaches for the design and implementation of sustainable development policies and projects. The program helps address knowledge gaps in countries’ policies and regulations to improve policy design and implementation, increase awareness, provide a platform for knowledge creation and sharing, and enable sustained professional learning. Providing governments and other stakeholders with knowledge on relevant topics such as green growth, economic diversification, shared infrastructure, women’s participation, local employment, and employability. Facilitate stakeholder consultations and outreach to promote inclusive participation in the design of sector reforms. Component 4: Local Communities and Ecosystems Strengthening local community benefits for all and mitigating adverse impacts on local ecosystems The importance of environmental protection and social inclusion in extractive industries’ operations has grown over the last decades, from being a marginal aspect of operations to becoming decisive preconditions for obtaining the social license to operate. Environmental considerations are continuously evolving and affected stakeholders claim active participation in decision-making. EGPS engages in consolidating environmental protection and community benefits while supporting workable solutions and remedies to mitigate the industry’s potentially adverse effects. This includes supporting Artisanal and Small-scale Mining (ASM) communities to improve their working conditions and economic sustainability, while mitigating risks related to child labor, environmental hazards, and the sector’s proximity to illicit financial flows. EGPS also develops cutting-edge approaches related to the sector’s role in the climate-change agenda through Climate Smart Mining and Just Transition , a program designed to supporting countries in their transition out of a coal-based energy matrix Under this component, EGPS also provides advice to governments for improved assessment and mitigation of adverse social, health, and livelihood effects of extractives industries, including: Generating global and regional knowledge on environmental and social challenges in the sector such as deep-sea mining in the Pacific, abandoned mines in Central Asia, impact of lithium mining in Bolivia. Engaging in Artisanal and Small-scale Mining (ASM). EGPS finances the Delve platform , the first global database for ASM data, to provide complete, accurate, and reliable data necessary for any intervention in ASM, such as efforts to formalize the sector, to improve the livelihoods of poor people, or to empower women miners. Responding to social and environmental crises: EGPS created a targeted emergency response to help ASM miners and their communities to better cope with COVID-19 impacts. Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->