Event | GIF Seminar “Preparing Bankable Infrastructure Projects for Climate Finance” Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events GIF Seminar “Preparing Bankable Infrastructure Projects for Climate Finance” Share OVERVIEW The Global Infrastructure Facility (GIF) , a G20 initiative, is a global public-private collaboration platform that advises governments in the preparation of sustainable, quality infrastructure projects for private investment in developing countries and emerging markets. GIF enables collective action among a wide range of partners – including donors, multilateral development banks, country governments, with inputs of private sector investors and financiers – to leverage resources and expertise and find solutions to build bankable pipelines of infrastructure projects that attract private financing. As part of the GIF's overarching commitment to bring bankable, quality, and sustainable infrastructure projects to market, knowledge also plays a key role. In this context, the GIF hosted an online seminar for Japanese stakeholders focused on leveraging climate finance and carbon markets to strengthen infrastructure investment in EMDEs. Mobilizing private capital into climate-aligned infrastructure remains vital in the face of growing environmental challenges. However, developers and investors face hurdles—from aligning with national climate goals to accessing new financial instruments such as carbon credits. This seminar provided practical insights into knowledge and tools needed to prepare infrastructure projects that can effectively leverage climate finance, including tapping on the carbon markets. Through expert discussions and case studies, the seminar provided actionable guidance on enhancing project bankability, aligning with climate policies, and accessing available financing opportunities. GIF’s experience and knowledge will be shared to support Japanese companies in navigating challenges and expanding their investment footprint in EMDEs. Speakers: Jane Jamieson Head, Global Infrastructure Facility (GIF) Mukta Malhotra Senior Infrastructure Finance Specialist, Global Infrastructure Facility (GIF) Jade Shu Yu Wong Infrastructure Finance Specialist, Global Infrastructure Facility (GIF) Related Seminar: GIF Seminar “Addressing Exchange Rate Risk in Infrastructure Projects in EMDEs” DATE/TIME: 10:00am-11:00am, Friday, April 11, 2025(Japan Standard Time) FORMAT: Online (Webex) LANGUAGE: English and Japanese with simultaneous interpretation. CONTACT: Koichi Omori, World Bank Tokyo Office komori@worldbankgroup.org Event Details Date: April 11, 2025 Time: 01:00 AM - 01:00 AM ET Location: Tokyo, Japan Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×