World Bank Issues EUR 90 million 7-Year Sustainable Development Bond for a Japanese Institutional Investor Who We Are News This page in: English 日本語 This page in: English 日本語 PRESS RELEASE September 9, 2025 World Bank Issues EUR 90 million 7-Year Sustainable Development Bond for a Japanese Institutional Investor Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Tokyo, September 9, 2025 – The World Bank (International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, IBRD, AAA/Aaa) today issued an EUR 90 million 7-year Sustainable Development Bond due September 2032. National Mutual Insurance Federation of Agricultural Cooperatives (Zenkyoren) was the sole investor in the transaction. Proceeds of the bond will be used to support the financing of eligible sustainable development activities designed to achieve positive social and environmental impacts in developing countries in line with the World Bank’s mission to end extreme poverty and boost shared prosperity on a livable planet. About the World Bank The World Bank (International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, IBRD), rated Aaa/AAA (Moody’s/S&P), is an international organization. Created in 1944, it is the original member of the World Bank Group and operates as a global development cooperative owned by 189 nations. The World Bank provides loans, guarantees, risk management products, and advisory services to middle-income and other creditworthy countries to end extreme poverty and promote shared prosperity on a livable planet. It also provides leadership to coordinate regional and global responses to development challenges. The World Bank has been issuing bonds in the international capital markets for over 75 years to fund programs and activities that achieve a positive impact. World Bank bonds are aligned with the Sustainability Bond Guidelines published by the International Capital Market Association. More information on the World Bank’s Sustainable Development bonds is available at www.worldbank.org/debtsecurities . The World Bank’s Sustainable Development Bond Impact Report describes how the World Bank engages with investors and raises awareness for specific development challenges. Disclaimers This press release is not an offer for sale of securities of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development ("IBRD"), also known in the capital markets as "World Bank". Any offering of World Bank securities will take place solely on the basis of the relevant offering documentation including, but not limited to, the prospectus, term sheet and/or final terms, as applicable, prepared by the World Bank or on behalf of the World Bank, and is subject to restrictions under the laws of several countries. World Bank securities may not be offered or sold except in compliance with all such laws. The World Bank Sustainable Development Bond Framework, the World Bank’s Sustainable Development Bond Impact Report, and the information set forth therein are not a part of, or incorporated by reference into, the offering documentation. Net proceeds of the securities described herein are not committed or earmarked for lending to, or financing of, any particular projects or programs. Payments on the securities described herein are not funded by any project or program. Contacts Washington DC Investor Relations and Sustainable Finance, World Bank Treasury debtsecurities@worldbank.org Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×