Public Consultations on the Kazakhstan Sustainable Livestock Development Project Where We Work Kazakhstan brief This page in: EN --> dropdown Русский This page in: _ English Русский --> dropdown November 8, 2019 Public Consultations on the Kazakhstan Sustainable Livestock Development Project Email Print Tweet Share Share LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> At the request of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the World Bank Group is preparing the Kazakhstan Sustainable Livestock Development Project , to be implemented in 2020-2024. To solicit views from relevant stakeholders, an interactive public consultation on the Technical, Environmental & Social Systems Assessment is taking place in Nur-Sultan, on November 14, 2019 . The ultimate objective of the public consultation is to inform different stakeholders, including the private sector, associations and unions, think tanks, the media, and civil society about the project and its objectives, as well as to provide a platform for exchange of ideas around the implementation of the project. The consultation in Nur-Sultan will be conducted in the form of a panel discussion, with the participation of Kazakhstan's Ministry of Agriculture, the World Bank Group and the Asian Development Bank. A World Bank Group-led discussion is also planned around the Technical, Environmental & Social Systems Assessment, including discussion on the design of a mechanism for obtaining farmers’ feedback on the project’s effectiveness. The discussion will be based on issues of interest, with input from representatives from the private and public sectors, associations/unions, think tanks, and civil society. Please register to participate . Agenda 9:00-9:30 Presentation of the Kazakhstan Sustainable Livestock Development Project for 2020-2024 and implementation mechanisms, roles and responsibilities of partners. Gulmira Issayeva, Vice Minister of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan 9:30-10:30 Panel discussion on the Program’s scope and objectives. Moderator: Yerlan Issiginov, media anchor. Panel members: Gulmira Issayeva, Vice Minister of Agriculture of the Republic of Kzakhstan Jean-Francois Marteau, World Bank Country Manager for Kazakhstan Frauke Jungbluth, World Bank Practice Manager Animesh Srivastava, Program Leader, World Bank Central Asia Regional Office Giovanni Capannelli, Director of Asian Development Bank, Kazakhstan 10:30-11:00 Coffee break 11:00-12:30 World Bank Group-led discussion around Technical, Environmental & Social Systems Assessment (including discussion on the design of a mechanism for obtaining farmers’ feedback on the project’s effectiveness), designed around World Bank Group questions on issues of interest with representatives from the private and public sectors, associations/unions, think tanks, NGOs, and civil society. 12:30-13:00 Closing remarks Details When: November 14, 2019, 9:00 AM - 1:00 PM Where: Grand Park Esil Hotel, 8 Beibitshilik, Nur-Sultan, conference room Turkuaz Register to participate RELATED WORLD BANK List of participants in the consultations (in Russian) List of invitees to the consultations (in Russian) Kazakhstan Sustainable Livestock Development Project World Bank in Kazakhstan Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->