Ecuador: Three thousand families are eating better thanks to new irrigation systems --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Ecuador: Three thousand families are eating better thanks to new irrigation systems August 28, 2012 This page in: English Español Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Life has improved for many farmers in Chimborazo Province, Ecuador, thanks to a new project that invests in automated irrigation systems. World Bank STORY HIGHLIGHTS The Chimborazo Development Investment Project (PIDD) benefits more than three thousand families. They have encouraged high-value commercial crops such as peas, corn, beans, potatoes, carrots, radish and alfalfa. The PIDD has improved 33 irrigations systems and it is expected that 59 systems will be rehabilitated by the end of the project “Irrigation is life. We live and eat from our lands; if there is no water, there is nothing,” said Hilda Rosalía Allaica Guamán, president of the Daldal Irrigation Board of Pungalá Parish, Chimborazo Province. Like Hilda, some three thousand farmers and their families have improved their quality of life by expanding and diversifying their crop production. This provides food security for their families, fodder for livestock and more produce for marketing. The Chimborazo Development Investment Project (PIDD) is financed by the World Bank through the Chimborazo autonomous government. The project aims to increase production and market access of rural families living in the Chambo and Chanchan-Chimbo river basins within Chimborazo Province through investments in irrigation and road improvement. Four demonstration plots have confirmed the benefits of automated irrigation in increasing production. This has led farmers to plant other crops of high market value, such as pea, corn, bean, potato, carrot, radish and fodder such as alfalfa. Don Segundo Cando, a resident of Lucerito community in Riobamba Canton, explained how the project has changed his life: “I used to cut wood; sometimes I would have to be away from home for eight to 15 days. Now I work exclusively on my plots and everything I produce benefits my family.” " Irrigation is life. We live and eat from our lands; if there is no water, there is nothing. " Hilda Rosalía Allaica Guamán President of the Daldal Irrigation Board of Pungalá Parish, Chimborazo. There’s no need to wait for the rain anymore The project has improved irrigation and planting conditions. Through community water oversight associations, users have established irrigation schedules and rates to guarantee continuity. A project impact assessment found that previously, 46.6% of the crops families cultivated were short-cycle crops whereas just 36.9% were permanent crops. Currently, 65% are permanent and semi-permanent crops, such as tree tomato, mulberry, alfalfa, cacao, fodder and others. The Chimborazo Development Investment Project has created new hope among users as they now have a continuous supply of clean water. They can develop their agricultural activities without having to depend exclusively on rainwater. To date, the project has improved 33 irrigations systems. The final goal is to rehabilitate 59 systems in 10 cantons of Chimborazo, Ecuador. RELATED WORLD BANK Ecuador Website Project Information Ecuador Water Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.