World Bank Prices USD 1.5 billion Increase to SOFR-Linked Floating Rate Bond Who We Are News PRESS RELEASE July 10, 2025 World Bank Prices USD 1.5 billion Increase to SOFR-Linked Floating Rate Bond Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina WASHINGTON, D.C., July 10, 2025 – Today, the World Bank (International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, IBRD, Aaa/AAA) priced its first USD transaction of the of the 2026 fiscal year, adding USD 1.5 billion to its October 2030 bond referencing the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) Index, bringing the total outstanding amount to USD 2.25 billion. The original SOFR-linked transaction was USD 500 million, issued in September 2023, and was increased in May 2025 to USD 750 million. This reopening reflects strong investor demand for high-quality, liquid assets and underscores IBRD’s ongoing commitment to the floating rate market linked to SOFR. SOFR is a rate based on transactions in the U.S. Treasury repurchase market and an alternative reference rate to USD LIBOR. The bond matures on October 4, 2030, and pays a coupon of Compounded SOFR + 46 basis points (resetting daily and paid quarterly). BMO Capital Markets, CIBC Capital Markets, and Scotiabank acted as joint lead managers of the transaction. Investor Breakdown by Type By Geography By Investor Type Europe, Middle East, Asia 49% Banks/Bank Treasuries/Corporates 91% Americas 38% Asset Managers/Insurance/Pension Funds 6% Asia 13% Central Banks/Official Institutions 3% Transaction Summary Issuer: World Bank (International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, IBRD) Issuer rating: Aaa /AAA Notional amount: USD 1,500,000,000 (new outstanding amount USD 2,250,000,000) Settlement date: July 17, 2025 Maturity date: October 4, 2030 Issue price: 100.145% Coupon: Compounded SOFR + 46 bps Coupon Payment Dates: January 4, April 4, July 4, October 4 Re-Offer Spread: SOFR + 43 bps ISIN: US459058KX08 Listing: Luxembourg Stock Exchange Clearing system: Fedwire, Euroclear, Clearstream Lead managers: BMO Capital Markets, CIBC Capital Markets, Scotiabank About the World Bank The World Bank (International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, IBRD), rated Aaa/AAA (Moody’s/S&P), is an international organization. Created in 1944, it is the original member of the World Bank Group and operates as a global development cooperative owned by 189 nations. The World Bank provides loans, guarantees, risk management products, and advisory services to middle-income and other creditworthy countries to end extreme poverty and promote shared prosperity on a livable planet. It also provides leadership to coordinate regional and global responses to development challenges. The World Bank has been issuing bonds in the international capital markets for over 75 years to fund programs and activities that achieve a positive impact. World Bank bonds are aligned with the Sustainability Bond Guidelines published by the International Capital Market Association. More information on the World Bank’s Sustainable Development bonds is available at www.worldbank.org/debtsecurities and in the World Bank’s Sustainable Development Bond Impact Report that describes how the World Bank engages with investors and raises awareness for specific development challenges. Disclaimers This press release is not an offer for sale of securities of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development ("IBRD"), also known in the capital markets as "World Bank". Any offering of World Bank securities will take place solely on the basis of the relevant offering documentation including, but not limited to, the prospectus, term sheet and/or final terms, as applicable, prepared by the World Bank or on behalf of the World Bank, and is subject to restrictions under the laws of several countries. World Bank securities may not be offered or sold except in compliance with all such laws. The World Bank Sustainable Development Bond Framework, the World Bank’s Sustainable Development Bond Impact Report, and the information set forth therein are not a part of, or incorporated by reference into, the offering documentation. Net proceeds of the bonds described herein are not committed or earmarked for lending to, or financing of, any particular projects or programs. Payments on the bonds described herein are not funded by any project or program. Contact Investor Relations and Sustainable Finance, World Bank Treasury, debtsecurities@worldbank.org RELATED World Bank Treasury Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×