Event | Domestic Revenue Mobilization at a Crossroads: Tax Policy Meets Data Analytics Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Domestic Revenue Mobilization at a Crossroads: Tax Policy Meets Data Analytics Share Presentation: Dario Tortarolo: Domestic Revenue Mobilization at a Crossroads: Tax Policy Meets Data Analytics OVERVIEW SPEAKERS POLICY RESEARCH TALKS RELATED In many developing countries, tax policy is often driven more by pragmatism rather than the pursuit of optimal outcomes. Barriers such as informality, low tax capacity, political roadblocks, and limited data analytics often result in inefficient and inequitable tax structures that persist over time. Instead of pursuing holistic reforms, governments frequently rely on ad hoc adjustments that prioritize short-term economic and social goals without fully understanding their broader impacts. However, advances in data availability and analytical tools are gradually expanding the scope for more informed domestic revenue mobilization, offering new ways to navigate these long-standing constraints. In this Policy Research Talk, World Bank economist Dario Tortarolo will argue that tax policy is at a crossroads. New data-driven approaches are reshaping how governments design and evaluate tax systems in real time, enabling policymakers to move beyond educated guesses toward informed, evidence-based decisions. Drawing on recent research on both national and subnational taxes—including value added taxes (VAT), personal income taxes, wealth taxes, business income taxes, and property taxes—the presentation will challenge conventional wisdom and demonstrate how countries can harness data analytics to better assess the efficiency and distributional consequences of tax policy. DATE: April 7, 2025 TIME: 12:30 - 2:00PM ET LOCATION: MC Building (MC 4-800) CONTACT: Michelle Chester mchester@worldbank.org SPEAKERS Dario Tortarolo Economist, Development Research Group Dario Tortarolo is an Economist on the Macroeconomics and Growth Team in the Development Research Group. His research focuses on Public Economics in developing countries and seeks to understand (i) how public policies affect workers, businesses, and consumers, (ii) the distributional impacts and the unintended effects due to design issues, and (iii) how governments can address tax avoidance and evasion, especially at the top of the income distribution. Prior to joining the bank, he was an Assistant Professor at the University of Nottingham and a postdoctoral fellow at the IFS. He holds a Ph.D. in Economics from UC Berkeley and a B.Sc. and M.Sc. in Economics from Universidad Nacional de La Plata. He received the National Tax Association’s Outstanding Doctoral Dissertation prize in 2020. Learn More DISCUSSANT Gabriela Inchauste Practice Manager, Poverty and Equity Global Department Gabriela Inchauste is Practice Manager in the Global Unit of the Poverty and Equity Global Department at the World Bank. Previously she served in various positions as Lead Poverty Economist in the West and Central Africa, Latin American, and Eastern Europe and Central Asian regions. She has led technical work and policy dialogue on the distributional impact of fiscal policies, ex-ante analysis of the distributional impacts of climate change and climate action, and on methods and tools to decompose changes in poverty and inequality. She led regional analysis on poverty and inequality in Africa, global analysis on Fiscal Policy in developing countries, and the barriers to women’s labor force participation and agency. Learn More CHAIR Deon Filmer Director, Development Research Group Deon Filmer is Director of the Development Research Group at the World Bank. He has previously served as Acting Research Manager in the Research Group, Co-Director of the World Development Report 2018: Learning to Realize Education’s Promise, and Lead Economist in the Human Development department of the Africa Region of the World Bank. He works on issues of human capital and skills, service delivery, and the impact of policies and programs to improve human development outcomes—with research spanning the areas of education, health, social protection, and poverty and inequality. He has published widely in refereed journals, including studies of the impact of demand-side programs on schooling and learning; the roles of poverty, gender, orphanhood, and disability in explaining education inequalities; and the determinants of effective service delivery. Learn More The monthly Policy Research Talks showcase the latest findings of the World Bank’s research department, challenge and contribute to the institution’s intellectual climate, and re-examine conventional wisdom in current development theories and practice. These talks facilitate a dialogue between researchers and operational staff and inform World Bank operations both globally and within partner countries. Read More » Development Research Group Policy Research Talks Event Details Date: April 07, 2025 Time: 12:30 PM - 02:00 PM ET Location: Washington, DC and Online Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×