Technical Solutions Global Flaring and Methane Reduction Partnership (GFMR) Global Flaring and Methane Reduction Partnership (GFMR) Home About Partners Flaring Guide Flaring Data Methane Guide Technical Solutions More Regulation ZRF Select a EDS Sub navigation page selecting option, leaving this page Home Home About Partners Flaring Guide Flaring Data Methane Guide Technical Solutions Regulation ZRF Technical Solutions Using associated gas that would otherwise be flared or vented can often be challenging. However, a range of technical solutions exist. Capturing associated gas and transporting it to a market through a gas pipeline typically requires large volumes of gas supplied over a long period to be economically viable. Since associated gas volumes are rarely large enough at individual production sites, this often requires capturing associated gas from many sites to create sufficient volume. This can represent a significant cost unless the sites are located close to one another. While small-scale, modular, gas utilization technologies have been developed over the past few years, increasing the potential for using smaller volumes of associated gas, it can still be economically challenging to utilize associated gas. Much depends on the cost to purchase the associated gas and the value of the end-product. Image: Gooutsight Small modular electricity generation plants, truck-mounted, modular liquefied natural gas plants, integrated compressed natural gas systems and modular, remotely operated mini-gas-to-liquid plants may often, in the right circumstances, be economically viable alternatives to flaring and venting. Technical Resources Flaring Management Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry PDF This Flaring Management Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry, developed by GFMR in partnership with Ipieca and IOGP, outlines new flaring management and reduction developments, and examines industry experiences with eliminating flaring, new technologies, business models, operational improvements, and regulatory policy. Flaring Management Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry Financing Solutions to Reduce Natural Gas Flaring and Methane Emissions PDF This report provides a systematic framework for evaluating the feasibility of financing flare reduction projects at medium-sized flaring sites that have historically been difficult to tackle. Financing Solutions to Reduce Natural Gas Flaring and Methane Emissions Financing Solutions to Reduce Natural Gas Flaring and Methane Emissions Technology Summaries PDF GFMR Small-Scale Gas Utilization Technology Summaries - March 2024 Small-Scale Technologies for Utilization of Associated Gas PDF The "Small-Scale Technologies for Utilization of Associated Gas" describes the various technologies applicable for addressing small volumes of gas that may otherwise be flared. As well as addressing each technology’s level of technical readiness and range of application, the report includes indicative capital and operating costs and estimates of CO2 abatement potential and related abatement costs (US$/t CO2) for each technology across a range of gas volumes. Report on Small-Scale Technologies for Utilization of Associated Gas (English) Малотоннажные технологии утилизации попутного нефтяного газа (Pусский) Flare Mitigation Technology Selection Tool Excel The “Flare Mitigation Technology Selection Tool” is an interactive spreadsheet-based compilation of information on various types of equipment and technologies applicable to flare mitigation projects. The tool complements the GFMR report on “Small-scale Technologies for Utilization of Associated Gas.” Flare Mitigation Technology Selection Tool Methane Flaring Toolkit Website This Methane Flaring Toolkit, developed by GFMR in partnership with MGP and OGCI, provides users with a systematic framework for assessing the options and decisions that will enable operators to meet and exceed existing regulatory requirements. The approaches and tools developed enable operators to understand the different technologies that address methane measurement from flaring and support them through each of the key questions they need to consider when assessing how to reduce and eliminate methane emissions from flaring. Methane Flaring Toolkit Mini & Micro Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) PDF Mini and Micro LNG for Commercialization of Small Volumes of Associated Gas: Main Report Mini and Micro LNG for Commercialization of Small Volumes of Associated Gas (Vol. 2): Executive Summary Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) PDF CNG for Commercialization of Small Volumes of Associated Gas (Vol. 2) CNG for Commercialization of Small Volumes of Associated Gas: Executive Summary Comparison of Mini-LNG and CNG for Commercializing Small Volumes of Associated Gas PDF Comparison of Mini-Micro LNG and CNG for Commercialization of small Volumes of Associated Gas Executive Summary: Comparison of Mini / Micro LNG and CNG for Commercialization of Small Volumes of Associated Gas Mini-GTL PDF Associated Gas Utilization via MiniGTL Associated Gas Monetization via miniGTL: Conversion of Flared Gas into Liquid Fuels & Chemicals Associated Gas Monetization via mini GTL: Conversion of Flared Gas into Liquid Fuels and Chemicals - 2015: GTL Is a Commercial Reality for Flaring Reduction Associated Gas Monetization via MiniGTL PDF Associated gas monetization via miniGTL - conversion of flared gas into liquid fuels & chemicals Associated Gas Monetization via MiniGTL Associated Gas Monetization via MiniGTL Mini-GTL Technology Bulletin PDF Volume 8, December 2020 Volume 7, September 2020 Volume 6, September 2019 Volume 5, July 2018 Volume 4, January 2018 Volume 3, February 2017 Volume 2, July 2016 Volume 1, March 2016 Flare Measurement PDF This document provides guidance on quantifying flare and vent rates at oil and natural gas facilities. Guidelines on Flare and Vent Measurement (English) Guidelines on Flare and Vent Measurement (Russian) Methodology for Determining Flare Volumes from Satellite Data PDF GFMR, in partnership with NOAA and the Colorado School of Mines, has developed global gas flaring estimates based upon observations from satellites launched in 2012 and 2017. Methodology for Determining Flare Volumes from Satellite Data Upstream Gas Flaring Definitions PDF This document groups the various types of gas flaring at oil production facilities in three defined categories: routine flaring, safety flaring, and non-routine flaring. GFMR Gas Flaring Definitions Contact us For more information about GFMR, to join the partnership, or discuss collaborating on flaring and methane reduction opportunities, please contact us . FEATURED Global Gas Flaring Hits Highest Level Since 2007 Global gas flaring surged for a second year in a row, wasting about $63 billion in lost energy and setting back efforts to manage emissions and boost energy security and access. Read more Global Gas Flaring Hits Highest Level Since 2007 SOCAR Success Story SOCAR sets ambitions to slash Azneft's emissions to zero by 2022 A partner in the World Bank's Global Gas Flaring Reduction Partnership (GGFR), SOCAR shares its track record and future plans for gas flaring reduction. Read More SOCAR sets ambitions to slash Azneft's emissions to zero by 2022 ZRF Website Zero Routine Flaring by 2030 (ZRF) The ZRF initiative commits governments and oil companies to end routine flaring no later than 2030. Find out about ZRF Zero Routine Flaring by 2030 (ZRF) WBG Global Gas Flaring Data GFMR publishes global flaring data estimates to monitor flaring levels and track progress towards ending routine gas flaring. View our Data Global Gas Flaring Data Methane from Oil and Gas Explained What is methane and why does it matter? How does oil and gas production contribute to methane emissions? Why are flares a source of methane emissions? Why do oil and gas operators vent gas? What are fugitive emissions? How can we reduce the amount of methane emitted? What is being done about methane emissions? View Full Methane Guide Key Resources Photo © manine99 Interactive Tool Oil and Gas Sector Toolkit for the Global Methane Pledge This Methane Policy Toolkit supports governments as they develop policies and regulations to drive down oil and gas methane emissions. This toolkit connects policymakers and regulators to key resources and institutions supporting these policy efforts. Read More Oil and Gas Sector Toolkit for the Global Methane Pledge PDF Methodology for Determining Flare Volumes from Satellite Data GFMR, in partnership with NOAA and the Colorado School of Mines, has developed global gas flaring estimates based upon observations from satellites launched in 2012 and 2017. Download Methodology for Determining Flare Volumes from Satellite Data Nico Traut PDF GFMR Gas Flaring Definitions This document groups the various types of gas flaring at oil production facilities in three defined categories: routine flaring, safety flaring, and non-routine flaring. Download GFMR Gas Flaring Definitions PDF Financing Solutions to Reduce Natural Gas Flaring and Methane Emissions This report provides a systematic framework for evaluating the feasibility of financing flare reduction projects at medium-sized flaring sites that have historically been difficult to tackle. Read More Financing Solutions to Reduce Natural Gas Flaring and Methane Emissions RELATED World Bank Websites Extractive Industries Climate Change Zero Routine Flaring by 2030 (ZRF) Initiative Energy GFMR Flaring Data Dec 07, 2015 A Personal Appeal to End Routine Gas Flaring For Faith Nwadishi and her community in Nigeria, gas flaring negatively impacts their fundamental way of life. She tells us why this oil and gas industry practice must end as soon as possible. #EndRoutineFlaring A Personal Appeal to End Routine Gas Flaring Stay Connected GLOBAL FLARING AND VENTING REGULATIONS GFMR’s global regulatory review provides a systematic analysis of regulatory frameworks governing the flaring and venting of gas in 21 oil-producing countries. The framework for comparing regulations described in this report will help regulators and policymakers reach the goal of Zero Routine Flaring by 2030. - A Comparative Review of Policies - 28 Case Studies from Around the World Algeria Angola Argentina Brazil Canada: Federal Alberta British Columbia Saskatchewan Colombia Ecuador Egypt Gabon Indonesia Kazakhstan Libya Malaysia Mexico Nigeria Norway Oman Russia United Kingdom US: Federal Offshore US: Federal Onshore Colorado North Dakota Texas Venezuela Read the Full Report Contacts External Affairs Adam Pollard Email Program Assistant Kamola Akhmedova Email This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×