World Bank to Support Modernization of Argentina's Tax System Who We Are News This page in: English Español This page in: English Español PRESS RELEASE July 29, 2025 World Bank to Support Modernization of Argentina's Tax System Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina WASHINGTON D.C., July 29, 2025 – The World Bank today approved a US$300 million project to enhance Argentina tax administration’s efficiency, effectiveness, and transparency, by simplifying procedures, automating administrative processes, and providing clear and timely information to taxpayers. "This project’s approval is part of a comprehensive program with the World Bank, providing clear support for the priorities of President Milei's administration: fiscal balance, economic openness, and institutional strengthening. The project will help consolidate the tax policy and administration reforms we've been working on from day one, since we truly believe we need to create the right conditions to promote private investment, which is what really drives sustainable growth and job creation in Argentina," stated Pablo Quirno, Secretary of Finance at the Ministry of Economy of the Argentine Republic. Argentina's tax system represents a robust source of revenue. However, within the framework of the government's proposed reforms, opportunities for improvement in the tax structure persist. Therefore, this project aims to optimize the tax structure by broadening tax bases, improving collection efficiency, and strengthening equity, with the goal of building a fairer, modern, and sustainable system. "We support Argentina's efforts to advance towards a more progressive tax system that simplifies interaction with ARCA and encourages voluntary compliance," said Marianne Fay, World Bank Division Director for the Southern Cone. The reform will simplify procedures and services to facilitate access to information. For example, advancements in pre-filled forms will allow taxpayers to find their relevant information already incorporated into digital procedures, reducing administrative burden, minimizing errors, and facilitating access to public or financial services and programs. Additionally, progress is being made towards a new risk management approach to focus controls where they are needed for intelligent oversight. Finally, ARCA's (Custom Collection and Control Agency) online platform will provide access to a greater amount of data and enhance transparency, allowing for easier systematization of the information it manages and improved tax analysis and planning over time. The project is a variable-spread loan, reimbursable over 32 years with a 7-year grace period. Contacts Buenos Aires: Yanina Budkin (54) 911-36667567 ybudkin@worldbank.org Washington D.C.: Yuri Szabo Yamashita +1 (202) 948-5341 yszaboyamashita@worldbank.org RELATED The World Bank in Argentina: www.bancomundial.org.ar Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/BancoMundialArgentina Twitter: http://www.twitter.com/BancoMundialARG YouTube: http://www.youtube.com/bancomundialLAC Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×