Women Can Change Romania --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News OPINION Women Can Change Romania March 7, 2014 This page in: English Română Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Elisabetta Capannelli, Ana Maria Mihăescu On the occasion of the International Women’s Day, the country World Bank Group management would like to thank the women in Romania for their contribution to society. We confirm the commitment to preserve a gender lens in all the Bank’s activities in Romania for inclusive growth and to support the country’s efforts to reduce inequalities between women and men. Elisabetta Capannelli, World Bank Country Manager for Romania "According to recent estimates, there are between 1,200,000 and 2,500,000 Roma in Romania (i.e. between 6% and 12% of the total population). But the Roma are poor, vulnerable and socially excluded, and this is severely limiting their opportunities to contribute to the country’s economic growth. The at-risk-of-poverty rate of Romanian Roma, at 84%, is almost three times higher than among the neighboring non-Roma. Gender gap is a major issue and the situation is consistently bleaker for Roma girls and women in terms of status, education and access to jobs. Investing in Roma women will trigger a virtuous circle of social change. Roma women can provide hope to the future generation, if they have access to better health, better education, and better living conditions. Effective policies should first and foremost target women, investing in their education, and including and empowering them on the labor market. At the World Bank, we have the knowledge and convening power to show that Roma inclusion in general, and the inclusion of Roma women in particular, is not only the right thing to do, but is also smart economics. This is part of my mission and I hope that women in Romania will join me in making inclusive growth gender-balanced." " Investing in Roma women will trigger a virtuous circle of social change. Roma women can provide hope to the future generation, if they have access to better health, better education, and better living conditions. Effective policies should first and foremost target women, investing in their education, and including and empowering them on the labor market. " Elisabetta Capannelli World Bank Country Manager for Romania Ana Maria Mihăescu, Chief Representative for the IFC Mission in Romania “As a person preoccupied with gender equality and diversity, ever since I took the helm at the IFC portfolio for Romania, I have been focused on driving women’s participation in the Romanian private sector – as top notch leaders, entrepreneurs, talented employees, conscious consumers, and stakeholders, as a means for achieving inclusive growth and gender equality in the society.” The ladies in Romania Country Office salute you. RELATED World Bank in Romania Romania Europe and Central Asia Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.