Lighting Up Rural Communities in Bangladesh --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Lighting Up Rural Communities in Bangladesh January 15, 2014 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Kusum Koli Roy, 10, can study in the evening now due to a solar home system. More than 50,000 solar homes systems are being installed every month, making it the fastest growing such program in the world. Stephan Bachenheimer/World Bank STORY HIGHLIGHTS Only about 40% of rural households in Bangladesh have access to grid electricity. The Second Rural Electrification and Renewable Energy Development Project aims to increase access to electricity in off-grid rural areas through renewable energy sources. Through the project, 50,000 solar homes systems are being installed every month, making it the fastest growing solar home systems program in the world. Life comes to near standstill after sunset for the great majority of Bangladeshis living in the countryside. Only about 40% of rural households have access to grid electricity, and even these consumers suffer frequent and prolonged power cuts due to lack of supply. The Second Rural Electrification and Renewable Energy Development Project (RERED II) aims to increase access to electricity in off-grid rural areas through renewable energy sources. Challenge At present, against a peak demand of about 8,500 megawatt (MW), current supply is only about 6,500 MW. The urban areas with large industrial loads are prioritized for power supply leaving the rural areas with a disproportionate share of the power cuts. Further, the dispersed nature of rural settlements and the numerous rivers that crisscross the country make grid electrification in many areas of Bangladesh both difficult and expensive. Though progress is being made by the government to counter the power generation shortages, it is clear that reliance on grid electricity alone will not allow Bangladesh to realize its vision of universal access to electricity by 2021. Approach RERED II is building on the success of the earlier project, which has supported more than 650,000 new connections to the power grid in Bangladesh and supported more than 1.2 million solar home systems in remote rural areas. Since RERED ’s inception in 2003, the project contributed to increasing access to electricity in Bangladesh by 6%. A recent impact evaluation study on SHS have confirmed increased study time for children, increased mobility and sense of security for women, and increased use of contraceptives and fall in recent fertility in SHS households, thanks to awareness from watching TV. " We can study much better now. The solar lights have helped us a lot with our education. " Kusum Koli Roy Student, 10 years old The RERED II project continues to support the installation of solar power systems and other renewable energy options in remote rural areas where grid electricity is not economically viable. The project has already provided access to electricity to over 330,000 households. More than 50,000 solar homes systems are being installed every month, making it the fastest growing solar home systems program in the world. The implementing agency is a Government owned financing institution, IDCOL. Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) called Partner Organizations (POs) are installing SHS through a micro-credit scheme. Under the program, POs procure and install the systems in rural households as per technical standards set by IDCOL. The RERED II project is piloting renewable energy based mini-grids in remote rural areas and is also supporting solar irrigation pumps. Targeting rural growth centers, the mini-grids are expected to contribute to increased economic activities in rural areas. The solar irrigation pumps will reduce costs of irrigation to the farmers and will help to save foreign exchange for importing diesel. By providing a renewable source, the solar irrigation pumps will also contribute to reduced green-house gas emissions. A total 50 solar irrigation pumps with a capacity of 3.3-11kWp are under construction. Expected Results by 2018 2.5 million people in the rural areas of Bangladesh reached with electricity through solar home systems. Over 1 million rural households with clean cooking solutions. Towards the Future More than 28 million households in Bangladesh still rely on traditional biomass fuels burnt in inefficient stoves. The project also aims to provide clean cooking solutions to over 1 million rural households, which will benefit women and children in particular; 49 NGOs have been selected by IDCOL for implementing the cook stove program, and implementation is expected to start shortly. The project will also support the second phase deployment of energy efficient Compact Fluorescent Lamps (CFL) in exchange for incandescent lamps to help address the severe energy shortages in Bangladesh. RELATED WORLD BANK Rural Electrification and Renewable Energy Development II project documents and details RERED I Results Profile Video: New Life in Bangladesh World Bank in Bangladesh World Bank Bangladesh on Facebook Bangladesh South Asia Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.