World Bank Group Sets Direction for Energy Sector Investments --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY World Bank Group Sets Direction for Energy Sector Investments July 16, 2013 This page in: English Français العربية 中文 Español Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Stephan Bachenheimer / World Bank STORY HIGHLIGHTS The Energy Sector Directions Paper sets a principles-based course for the Bank Group’s work in the energy sector with a focus on expanding energy access and sustainable energy. The plan is anchored in the World Bank Group’s overarching goals of ending extreme poverty and building shared prosperity sustainably. It is also aligned with the Sustainable Energy for All initiative, which provides a defining vision for the World Bank Group on energy. Nearly one-sixth of today’s global population – 1.2 billion people – lives without access to electricity. Their businesses can’t operate after dusk, their schools lack power for technology, their children struggle to study by candlelight. The lack of power limits their opportunities, keeping communities in poverty. Two-fifths of the population – 2.8 billion people – still relies on solid fuel such as wood, charcoal, dung, and coal for cooking and heating, resulting in three and a half million deaths every year from the effects of indoor air pollution. Delivering reliable energy services for economic development and providing access to electricity and modern household energy services to these billions living without it is essential to reducing poverty and building shared prosperity. That is why expanding access to energy, along with accelerating energy efficiency and renewable energy, is at the core of the World Bank Group’s future work in the energy sector, as described in a new Energy Sector Directions Paper discussed by the Bank Group’s Executive Board on July 16. With the Executive Board’s support, the World Bank Group will use the paper to inform its operations going forward. The paper states that the World Bank Group will make every effort to “minimize the financial and environmental costs of expanding reliable energy supply” while also recognizing that “each country determines its own path for achieving its energy aspirations.” It emphasizes the importance of selecting areas in which the Bank Group can best help countries mobilize energy solutions that reduce poverty sustainably. World Bank Group President Jim Yong Kim, who led the discussion with the Executive Board, said the paper’s directions are anchored in the World Bank Group’s overarching goals of reducing the global rate of extreme poverty to 3 percent by 2030 and fostering the income growth of the bottom 40 percent in every country. “We need affordable energy to help end poverty and to build shared prosperity,” Kim said. “We will also scale up efforts to improve energy efficiency and increase renewable energy—according to countries’ needs and opportunities.” " We need affordable energy to help end poverty and to build shared prosperity. We will also scale up efforts to improve energy efficiency and increase renewable energy—according to countries’ needs and opportunities. " Jim Yong Kim World Bank Group President Guiding principles The paper is closely aligned with the Sustainable Energy for All initiative’s goals for 2030 to achieve universal access to modern energy, double the global rate of energy efficiency improvement, and double the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix. It focuses on a long-term system-wide approach that enables governments to manage resources in an integrated way and address the needs for energy supply and demand at once. At the regional level, it could promote regional integration to develop cross-border energy markets to deliver more reliable and affordable energy. Other guiding principles identified in the paper include an emphasis on improving the financial, operational, and institutional environment for the energy sector in countries to help stimulate private sector investment, and consulting with affected communities and civil society organizations, as well as industry. The paper addresses the use of fossil fuels. It affirms that the World Bank Group will “only in rare circumstances” provide financial support for new greenfield coal power generation projects, such as “meeting basic energy needs in countries with no feasible alternatives,” It says the Bank Group will scale up its work helping countries develop national and regional markets for natural gas, the fossil fuel with the lowest carbon intensity. The paper also confirms the Bank Group’s intention to increase support for hydropower projects. In addition to its focus areas, the paper calls on the World Bank Group to “intensify global advocacy.” This includes encouraging developed countries and large emerging economies to lead efforts on pricing carbon, moving new technologies and other innovations to markets, and deploying them at scale. “It’s a pragmatic set of directions for energy development,” said Rachel Kyte, World Bank Vice President for Sustainable Development. “We need to ensure that everyone is reaping the benefits of modern energy by 2030, and we need to do so sustainably. This paper positions us to partner with our countries to realize this vision.” The World Bank Group's work The World Bank Group’s work in energy today is already designed to help client countries secure the affordable, reliable, and sustainable energy supply needed to reduce poverty. The Bank Group has provided seed financing to support the construction of concentrating solar plants in North Africa, the installation of millions of off-grid household solar power systems across Bangladesh and Mongolia , the development of wind farms in Turkey, regional hydropower developments in Africa and South Asia, and geothermal power exploration in Kenya. In Belarus and other states of Eastern Europe, it supports energy efficiency projects that are warming schools and hospitals and saving money on utility bills that can instead be put into much-needed equipment. In Africa, where about 20 countries reach less than 20 percent of their populations with electricity, the Bank Group has worked to expand access to electricity. Power connections in Rwanda have more than tripled since 2009, and more schools and hospitals are connected with power grids, lowering costs and improving reliability. Globally, low-income countries – with 12 percent of the population – consume 1 percent of total global energy and have an average electrification rate of 30 percent. The directions paper provides a map for the Bank Group to reach more of these communities with the energy they need to help lift those in extreme poverty and boost economic opportunities in sustainable ways. RELATED WORLD BANK Toward a Sustainable Energy Future for All: Directions for the World Bank Group’s Energy Sector World Bank Energy Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.