Financing a Sustainable Future: Insights from Ornsaran Pomme Manuamorn Who We Are News FEATURE STORY March 27, 2025 Financing a Sustainable Future: Insights from Ornsaran Pomme Manuamorn Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina As Thailand transitions toward a greener, more resilient economy, sustainable finance plays a crucial role in unlocking investments that drive environmental and social progress. Leading these efforts is Ornsaran Pomme Manuamorn, Senior Financial Sector Specialist at the World Bank, who works to develop green finance, climate investment, and financial inclusion strategies that support Thailand’s sustainable development goals. In this special International Women’s Day feature, she shares her insights on how sustainable finance is shaping Thailand’s economic future, the challenges and opportunities in mobilizing green investments, and her journey as a woman in the financial sector. 1. What inspired you to specialize in sustainable financing and green finance? I started my career working on weather insurance in developing countries, then over the years expanded into broader environmental and sustainability issues such as climate change, and later climate finance. I think this experience provides a good background for me to move into sustainable finance, which is about aligning financial systems, instruments and investments with sustainable development goals. Sustainable finance today is a very interdisciplinary and dynamic space, so it’s exciting to be working on this topic. 2. How can sustainable financing contribute to Thailand’s long-term economic growth and environmental goals? Thailand successfully navigated a complex global environment and maintained macroeconomic stability following the COVID-19 pandemic. But to achieve its high-income aspiration, Thailand needs to scale up investment in sustainable activities that simultaneously deliver economic, social and environmental outcomes. For example, addressing challenges from climate change requires significantly more investment in mitigation projects to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and in adaptation projects to build resilience to climate vulnerability and extremes. Relying on public resources alone will not be adequate for Thailand. And it doesn’t have to be. Globally, climate finance flows are available and substantial. The key is for the financial sector to play an active role in mobilizing and allocating this capital to close the investment gap. But apart from targeting impactful investment from the perspective of climate goals, it’s also essential to ensure that sustainable financing mechanisms are inclusive and accessible by key vulnerable groups, such as SMEs and local communities. Balancing such economic, social and environmental outcomes is the role of sustainable finance. 3. What is one innovative financing project or work you’re currently involved in Thailand? I would categorize my work as a program of activities rather than individual projects. For example, Thailand has made strong progress on the sustainable finance agenda and have put in place many key ingredients for sustainable finance ecosystem . So, I am working on a range of activities that support Thailand to further strengthen these key ingredients. This includes climate risk assessment for the financing sector, developing new tools such as green taxonomy, assessing how to leverage new financing instruments to promote innovations for SMEs, and facilitating knowledge exchanges between Thailand and other countries on these topics. 4. How do you see the role of women in financial leadership evolving, and what can be done to support more women in this field? Women leaders are prominent in many fields of finance, including sustainable finance. I think the key is to continue to foster an inclusive and team-oriented environment, at both the organizational and industry levels, where everyone has the opportunity to thrive. Mentorship, networking and knowledge exchanges are also key for continued professional and personal growth. 5. Who is a woman who has inspired you in your journey, and why? I would not be able to pinpoint one single woman. I have been blessed throughout my career to have so many talented and kind women as my mentors, colleagues, and friends, both when I was working abroad and now in Thailand. It’s these day-to-day, real-life interactions with them that kept me humbled and inspired. RELATED The World Bank in Thailand International Women's Day 2025 in Thailand Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×