Solomon Islands: Giving a second chance to Honiara’s young unemployed population --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Solomon Islands: Giving a second chance to Honiara’s young unemployed population August 13, 2012 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> The Government of Solomon Islands is implementing a project that provides training and work for youths, and is helping bring positive change to communities. STORY HIGHLIGHTS In Honiara, 20 percent of youths are unemployed while in rural areas of the country, this figure reaches 50 percent. The World Bank is supporting the Government of Solomon Islands to implement a project to provide jobs and trainings for youths. Over 15,000 people have benefited from training and work bringing positive change to communities. Honiara, Solomon Islands, August 13, 2012 – Only 20 percent of the youth population aged 15-24, living in the Solomon Islands capital city of Honiara are employed. In rural areas, 50 percent of the youths are either unemployed or inactive. Honiara is a growing city with people flooding in from the remote parts of the country looking for work. Fabian, a youth from the Island of Malaita, left his parents and siblings and went to Honiara in search of a job. “My parents don’t have work. They stay at home. All my brothers and sisters don’t have employment. I am the only one that came to Honiara to find a job to help my family,” said Fabian. Little did he know there were no job opportunities to fit everyone who had the same need as him. Disappointed in not finding a job and with a lot of time on his hands, Fabian eventually was pressured into petty crime and drug use from some of the youths in the settlement where he lives. Many youths in Honiara have experienced The Rapid Employment Project helps youths with jobs and trainings The Government of Solomon Islands has introduced the Rapid Employment Project , to provide training and work opportunities for vulnerable communities in Honiara, including youths. This project became a catalyst in turning around Fabian’s life from being a petty criminal and drug user living in the settlements to becoming a small business owner. Fabian attended the training and the work placement provided by the project. He was then able to build on the knowledge he acquired through the training sessions on savings and financial skills and used the money he earned through the project to buy small items to sell, and bit by bit was able to build his own canteen business. “I started this small canteen after I finished with the cleanup work in town. So I feel good about helping myself this time. I stopped following the other guys because I am busy now days with my canteen,” Said Fabian proudly. With the Rapid Employment Project offering more short term work opportunities, Fabian hopes to get another short work placement with the project. From now on, he hopes the future will be bright. " I look back at my life before. It was useless and didn’t benefit my life. Now my life is steady. My hope for the future is I will continue to try and have a balanced life. I’m thinking of doing something big to benefit my life. " Fabian a youth from the Island of Malaita The project has helped 15,000 people with trainings and work The Rapid Employment Project started in June 2010 and is being implemented by the Honiara City Council and Ministry of Infrastructure Development. The US$7.2 million project is funded by the World Bank through an IDA Grant , State and Peace-building Fund and Pacific Region Infrastructure Facility which is financed by Australia and New Zealand. To date, more than SBD 7.5 million (approximately USD 1 million) has been invested into communities and surrounding areas in Honiara through the transfer of wages. Over 250,000 labor days have been created by the project, with about 15,000 people benefitting from training and work activities. Approximately 57 percent of total beneficiaries are women and 50 percent youth. It’s not just the individuals who have benefited but also the community through road improvements, rubbish collection and much more. The REP is expected to exceed its labor day targets by the end of the project in 2015. RELATED WORLD BANK Results profile: Solomon Islands Rapid Employment Project Newsletter: Solomon Islands Rapid Employment Project (pdf) Indonesia East Asia Pacific Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.