Event | Joint GWU-World Bank Seminar: Corporations and the Rule of Law Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Joint GWU-World Bank Seminar: Corporations and the Rule of Law Share Overview Corporations dominate our lives and control much of the economy. While they do not have voting rights, corporations have immense influence on development, the functioning of governing institutions, and democracy itself. What legal rights and obligations should corporations have and how do these rights interact with the rights of humans? Does corporate law ensure that corporations comply with other laws? How can the rule of law, including how corporate laws are written and enforced, produce “good” and “just” outcomes for society? The first 100 attendees will get Professor Admati’s book “The Bankers’ New Clothes: What’s Wrong with Banking and What to Do About It”. Anat R. Admati Speaker Anat R. Admati is the George G.C. Parker Professor of Finance and Economics at the Stanford University Graduate School of Business (GSB), a Director of the GSB Corporations and Society Initiative, and a Senior Fellow at the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research. She is an economist with broad cross-disciplinary interests in the interactions between business, law and policy, and an advocate for better governance and accountability in the private sector and in government. She is also the co-author of The Bankers’ New Clothes: What’s Wrong with Banking and What to Do About It, (Princeton University Press, New Edition, 2024). Read More Sunil Sharma Chair Sunil Sharma is a Distinguished Visiting Scholar at the Institute for International Economic Policy, Elliott School of International Affairs, The George Washington University, Washington DC, USA, a Senior Associate at the Council on Economic Policies, Zurich, Switzerland, and an Advisory Council Member, North Star Transition, London, United Kingdom. He was Assistant Director in the IMF’s Research Department from 2015- 2018, and the Director of the IMF-Singapore Regional Training Institute in Singapore (STI) from 2006-2015. Before moving to Singapore in 2006, Sunil was Chief of the IMF Institute’s Asian Division in Washington, D.C. Prior to joining the IMF in 1992, he was on the Economics faculty at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA). Read More Indermit S. Gill Co-Chair Indermit Gill is Chief Economist of the World Bank Group and Senior Vice President for Development Economics. Before starting this position on September 1, 2022, he served as the World Bank’s Vice President for Equitable Growth, Finance, and Institutions, where he helped shape the Bank’s response to the extraordinary series of shocks that have hit developing economies since 2020. His work includes introducing the concept of the “middle-income trap” to describe how countries stagnate after reaching a certain level of income. The 2024 World Development Report, prepared with his guidance, highlights strategies for countries to escape the middle-income trap—by adopting modern technologies and driving innovation. Read More Erik Feyen Discussant Erik Feyen is Head of Global Macro-Financial Monitoring and Lead Financial Sector Economist in the Finance Global Practice of the World Bank. In this capacity, he leads the research of global macro-financial vulnerabilities and trends; has oversight responsibility for financial sector aspects in World Bank country strategies; and directs the Finance & Prosperity report, the World Bank’s annual assessment of the financial sector, markets, and related policies in emerging market and developing economies. Read More Event Details Date: September 17, 2025 Time: 12:00 PM - 02:00 PM ET Location: For In-Person Participants: World Bank HQ MC C2 - 370 Hybrid: Please Sign Up Here Virtual Joining Link will be Shared with Registered Participants Event Contact: Assemgul Kalenova akalenova@worldbank.org Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×