Human Health Featured Content - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Back to climate , updates Human Health Featured Content February 26, 2014 The 2018 U.S. National Climate Assessment ’s chapter on Human Health provides a comprehensive overview of the latest scientific information on the impacts of climate change on public health. Exploring the following resources should provide a greater understanding of human health vulnerability to climate change and other stressors. The National Air Quality Forecast Capability (NAQFC) provides the U.S. with ozone, fine particulate matter (PM2.5), smoke, and dust forecasts with enough accuracy and advance notice to take action to prevent or reduce adverse effects. The Food Safety Information feed is produced in real-time by the CDC and results from the integration of information from the USDA’s Food Safety Inspection Service and the FDA’s Food Safety Recalls. The CDC Health Alert Network (HAN) provides urgent public health information through the HAN messaging system including alerts, advisories, updates, and information services relevant to public health events such as wildfire smoke exposure or incidence of malaria. The Nutrient and Coliform Loading (NCL) database is a compilation of available fecal coliform bacteria, fecal streptococci bacteria, and nutrient loading data and can be used to quickly identify available measures of loading from different land uses and animals. About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov