About Us - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide About Us Mission The United States Government's open data site is designed to unleash the power of government open data to inform decisions by the public and policymakers, drive innovation and economic activity, achieve agency missions, and strengthen the foundation of an open and transparent government. Explore the Timeline Inform decisions Drive innovation Achieve agency missions Strengthen open government Who developed Data.gov? Data.gov was launched in 2009 and is managed and hosted by the U.S. General Services Administration, Technology Transformation Services . With what technology is Data.gov built? Data.gov is powered by two open source applications, CKAN and 11ty and it is developed publicly on GitHub . Get Data on Data.gov How are the datasets on Data.gov collected? Under the OPEN Government Data Act, which is Title II of the Foundations for Evidence-Based Policymaking Act , government data is required to be made available in open, machine-readable formats, while continuing to ensure privacy and security. Government data publishers looking to get their data on Data.gov should read the detailed guide: How to get your open data on Data.gov . The Data.gov team typically works with a designated open data point of contact as a liaison for each agency. Data publishers should consult with their agency point of contact to include any additional datasets on Data.gov. If you need help determining who your open data point of contact is, please contact us . Federal agencies are required to: Create a Single Agency Data Inventory. Agencies are required to catalog their data assets, just like they would inventory computers or desk chairs, to better manage and use these resources. Publish a Public Data Listing. Agencies are required to publish a list of their data assets that are public, or could be made public. This list is made available as a data.json hosted at the primary domain of the agency (e.g.) gsa.gov/data.json Agency Public Data Listings are made available on agency websites as JSON files following the DCAT-US Schema v1.1 , and are then harvested into the central catalog for Data.gov. Each agency is responsible for its own data. Media inquiries If you are preparing an article or creating an event, and are interested in finding information, a speaker, or other help in communicating about open data, contact the Data.gov team at datagov@gsa.gov . About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov