Global Partnership for Social Accountability Call for Proposals for Third Party Monitoring in Tajikistan Where We Work Tajikistan This page in: EN --> dropdown Русский This page in: _ English Русский --> dropdown Global Partnership for Social Accountability Call for Proposals for Third Party Monitoring in Tajikistan Email Print Tweet Share Share LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Invitation to submit Expression of Interests (EOI) by January 20th, 2021 The World Bank established the Global Partnership for Social Accountability (GPSA) in 2012 with the purpose of enhancing citizens’ voice and, just as importantly, supporting the capacity of governments to respond effectively to their voice. The GPSA is based on constructive engagement between governments and civil society in order to create an enabling environment in which citizen feedback is used to solve fundamental problems in service delivery and to strengthen the performance of public institutions. The GPSA is pleased to announce a Call for Expression of Interests for Third-Party Monitoring in the Republic of Tajikistan, with the purpose of increasing transparency, accountability, collaboration and efficiency of the World Bank financed Tajikistan Emergency COVID-19 Project (TEC-19), implemented by the Ministry of Health and Social Protection of Population of the Republic of Tajikistan. The project aims to enhance the country’s efforts to effectively respond to the health and social risks associated with the COVID-19 (Coronavirus) pandemic. Objective of the grant opportunity: The goal of the activity is to complement the efforts of the Government of Tajikistan to assess the efficiency and performance of the TEC-19 Project and to provide an unbiased perspective and make recommendations for any improvements needed. An independent Third-Party Monitoring will provide the government with valuable information, enabling them to course-correct, protect projects against risks, strengthen dialogue with civil society, and, overall, can increase the effectiveness of the project. Selection Criteria: Selection of the Contractor will be based on experience in social accountability and Third-Party Monitoring in the Tajikistan context, in addition to World Bank’s general procurement guidelines. Interested parties should demonstrate the technical capacity to monitor all components of the project, namely (a) the health care and epidemiological health sector, (b) social support for vulnerable groups of the population, and (c) multi-sectoral information and communication activities in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. When responding to express interest or to generate proposals to undertake this assignment, candidates will be expected to provide the following: Information showing that they are qualified in the field of the assignment, specifically with regard to their experience with social accountability and Third-Party Monitoring. Information on the technical and managerial capabilities of the firm. Information on their core business and years in business. Information on the qualifications of key staff. For the carrying out of the assignment, Civil Society Organization(s) registered to operate in Tajikistan are strongly encouraged to apply. Grants Details : The amount of the contract is US$245,000 covering data collection and systematization, potential development of platform for tracking data, training on budget tracking, knowledge and learning events, and monitoring and evaluation. Applicants are encouraged to work in partnership with CSOs and CBOs in country, especially local organizations. Payments will be made against deliverables, after being reviewed and cleared by the World Bank. Timeframe and Submission Instructions: The application process for this grant opportunity consists of 2 stages. First, organizations will submit an Expression of Interest (EoI). The World Bank will evaluate the EOIs and invite shortlisted organizations to submit a full proposal. Shortlisted organizations will be notified within 2 weeks after submitting an EoI online and will then be invited to submit a full proposal within 3 weeks. Eligible organizations need to submit their Expression of Interest by 20-Jan-2021 at 11:59:59 PM (Eastern Time – Washington D.C.). To view and submit the EoI applicants must register and apply here: https://wbgeconsult2.worldbank.org/wbgec/index.html?$t=notifind#$h=1610015731812 responding to the following selection: EoI - SOCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY OF COVID19 EMERGENCY FUNDS: GLOBAL PARTNERSHIP FOR SOCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY (GPSA) THIRD PARTY MONITORING OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS Selection number 1272272 Information Session for Interested CSOs / Contractors CSOs or Contractors interested in responding to the EoI are welcome to join an online information session. When: Jan 13, 2021 Time: 16:30 Dushanbe / 6:30 am Washington DC Time To join, register in advance for this meeting by clicking the following link: https://us02web.zoom.us/meeting/register/tZErcOCspjksG9NpM3r4pvoqKqW4UoKc_Jho After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information about joining the meeting. For help completing the E-application please contact: Rosemary Rop at rrop@worldbank.org (English). For additional questions you may contact Nigina Alieva at nalieva1@worldbank.org . Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->