Let’s Go Green in the Middle East and North Africa --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News OPINION Let’s Go Green in the Middle East and North Africa November 1, 2016 This page in: English Français العربية Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Hafez Ghanem An Urgent Call for Action on Climate Change We could be at a turning point. Less than one year after it was signed, the historic Paris agreement to combat climate change has now been ratified by a sufficient number of countries to come into force in the next few days. The agreement commits the international community to a set of bold measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and keep the rise in global temperatures under 2˚C. It is now time to turn that agreement into action and the next global meeting on climate change, COP 22 , in Morocco will bring together all the parties working towards this collective goal. Morocco has set a powerful example. Over the past few years, the country’s decision makers have geared up policy and investments toward increasing resilience and fostering a low carbon economy. The hosting of the COP 22 in Morocco is a testament to the role of middle income countries in tackling climate change, and their capacity to rally the international community around this critical task. This year’s COP in Marrakech will also focus on the challenges faced by the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region as a whole. Climate change in MENA is already exacting a toll and could become a major driver of instability. With deserts covering large parts of the region, habitable land in MENA is precious. In a 1.5˚C hotter world, our assessments indicate that even more of the region may become un-inhabitable due to longer, more frequent and more severe droughts. This will increase migration to the region’s crowded cities. MENA’s pattern of economic and human concentration along its coasts already makes it particularly vulnerable to rises in sea level. The Mediterranean is expected to rise between 0.2 and 0.5 meters, which, in the absence of adaptation measures, could affect up to 25 million people between Algiers and Beirut. Along with displacing millions of people, the loss of land, property and valuable cultural assets would be in the billions of dollars. Dedicated financing and policies focused on building resilience are, more than ever, a critical priority to address these challenges. The World Bank Group is committed to supporting countries both in the region and around the world map a path toward low carbon growth and greater resilience to the impacts of climate change. We have set ambitious global targets to be met by 2020. These include helping d increase climate-smart agriculture investments, add 30 gigawatts of renewable energy – enough to power 150 million homes – to the world’s energy generating capacity and to prepare for extreme weather with early warning systems for 100 million people. We will partner with MENA countries, supporting efforts to meet their respective international climate commitments with our knowledge and resources. Morocco and the United Arab Emirates are among those that have already ratified the Paris agreement and contributed to its coming into force. This is an encouraging step for the region, showing that the climate agenda is moving to the top of countries’ strategic priorities. But change will not happen overnight. It will take each and every one of us, decision makers, institutions, private sector and citizens, to take full responsibility and adapt our actions and behaviors. Marrakech will be a COP for action; a COP marking a step toward the change needed to avoid the point of no return; the COP where major economies will pave the way towards going green. RELATED COP22 Marrakech Algeria Home Climate Change Djibouti Egypt Iran Iraq Jordan Lebanon Libya Morocco Syria Tunisia West Bank and Gaza Yemen View More + Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.