Event | World Bank Tokyo Online Morning Seminar #211 “Continental Drying: A Threat to Our Common Future” Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events World Bank Tokyo Online Morning Seminar #211 “Continental Drying: A Threat to Our Common Future” Share OVERVIEW The world is losing 324 billion cubic meters of freshwater every year, enough to meet the needs of 280 million people annually, according to the first edition of the Global Water Monitoring Report released today by the World Bank on November 4, 2025. These losses are driven by worsening droughts and unsustainable land and water practices, including poor pricing policies, weak coordination, deforestation, wetland degradation, and excessive irrigation. The report, Continental Drying: A Threat to Our Common Future , provides the most detailed picture yet of global freshwater decline, and offers a roadmap for reversing the trend through smarter policy and investment. At this online seminar, Fan Zhang, World Bank’s Lead Economist and Globa Lead for Water Economics and Climate Change, will share the main points of the report. This online seminar will be conducted in English without interpretation into Japanese. Speaker Fan Zhang Lead Economist and Global Lead for Water Economics and Climate Change, World Bank Learn More Regiser Now Event Details Date/Time 9:00am-10:00am, Tuesday, December 9, 2025 (Japan Standard Time) Format Online (Webex) Language English (without interpretation into Japanese) Registration Registration is required by online form posted on the following webpage. You will be informed the Webex link via email prior to the seminar. Inquiry Koichi Omori, World Bank Tokyo Office komori@worldbankgroup.org Related Past World Bank Tokyo Morning Seminar Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×