Cross-border Trade in Zambia: A Path to Growth and Jobs --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Cross-border Trade in Zambia: A Path to Growth and Jobs October 16, 2013 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> © GlobalHort Image Library/ Imagetheque STORY HIGHLIGHTS Informal trade in Zambia and across Sub Saharan Africa represents a large portion of the economy Regulatory and other barriers are making it difficult for informal traders, particularly women, to do business across borders In Zambia, a new Charter for Cross Border Traders is aiming to ease the flow of goods and services LUSAKA, October 16, 2013— Informal cross-border trade is a major feature of Africa’s economic and social landscape. In Zambia, thousands of traders cross the country’s borders every day bringing in revenues from informal trade of beans, maize or rice that often exceeds that of formal exports and imports. Allowing traders to flourish is one of the key ways to promote growth and create jobs across Sub-Saharan Africa. Cross-border trade is also essential for reducing poverty, since the poor, including many women, are intensively engaged in the informal production and trading of goods and services. Despite its benefits, conducting cross-border transactions remains a tough business for small traders. “Small traders face highly regressive costs and have little choice, but to trade informally,” said, John Keyser, Senior Trade Consultant at the World Bank. In 2010, the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa established the Simplified Trade Regime to help traders who sell goods that do not exceed USD 1,000.00. The Regime simplified several customs processes for traders, yet a host of registration and other requirements remain in place today. As a result, small informal traders pay 62% more in border costs than large formal traders. Additionally, informal traders are trapped in this way of life, because should they attempt to transition to the formal market, they would pay more than double the border costs they face as informal traders. To strengthen the rights of small traders and facilitate their cross-border transactions, the World Bank, in collaboration with the National Implementation Unit of the Ministry of Commerce, Trade and Industry of Zambia, hosted a workshop on September 19th to share the findings of the Diagnostics Trade Integration Study (DTIS) and to propose targeted areas of reform related to informal trade and trade facilitation. The debate between local traders and policy makers, who attended the event in Lusaka, gave clear priorities for policy action. First, the small traders called for urgent steps to reform the Simplified Trade Regime. Despite the vision for the program, this trading tool remains underutilized due to the small cost savings it provides and the social prejudice against small traders. During the workshops, Zambian traders shared their own personal experiences and suggestions for reforming this trade program, including: Increasing the ceiling on the value of transactions; Broadening the scope of products covered; and Simplifying (or dropping) other requirements that limit its use by small traders. “While the government sees the program as successful, it is important to have discussions with the private sector to come to a mutual agreement about how to reform it,” said Yvonne Chileshe, Director of Foreign Trade at Zambia’s Ministry of Commerce, Trade and Industry. During the event, the traders and government representatives supported a Charter for Cross Border Traders that aims at improving the treatment of traders at the border and increasing the efficiency of trade flows. The goal is to post and disseminate the Charter at border crossings to enshrine a basic set of rights to traders and obligations for officials. The clarification of traders’ rights and the responsibility of the government and the international community to support and put in place concrete measures are essential steps to easing cross-border transactions, according to Nora Dihel, Senior Trade Economist at the World Bank. Meeting participants suggested piloting the Charter at the border between Zambia and Malawi. The Charter’s main messages are: Basic rights and obligations for traders and officials: Traders processed at the border efficiently, without discrimination or harassment; Physical check of traders must be recorded with the reason and outcome provided; All duties, fees, taxes and methodology are publically available at the border; Documentary requirements should be clearly stated and publically available at the border; With the support of the international community, governments commit to: Visible communication of basic rights and obligations in the local language at all border crossings; At least one agent/all senior officials/50% of officials have received gender awareness training; At all border posts traders have access to register violation of basic rights; Apply strict disciplinary measures against abusive officials. “Even with efficiently functioning trade programs and charters in place, adopting a clear national logistics strategy, as well as a proactive approach to regional logistics, is imperative to lowering the high trade costs within the Zambia and across Southern Africa,” said Charles Kunaka, Senior Trade Specialist at the World Bank. Delays at border crossings due to a lack of cross-border information exchange between border agencies and out-of-date or cumbersome transit regimes are some of the largest barriers to trade. “Implementing regionally integrated transit systems and being proactive in interactions with neighbors to improve regional corridor performance can help reduce Zambia’s trade costs within the region and globally,” said Kunaka. This can be achieved through harmonization of infrastructure planning and policies governing logistics services. RELATED WORLD BANK Website: World Bank Africa Trade Website: The World Bank in Zambia Website: The World Bank in Africa Zambia Home Trade Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.