Moldova: More Wine Please! --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Moldova: More Wine Please! January 29, 2009 This page in: English Română Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> In rural Moldova , growing grapes in the front yard is commonplace. In fact, making one's own wine in Moldova is not just a hobby – it is something of a national pastime. Yet while Moldovan wines are well known in the former Soviet Union , the country's vintages do not yet have the full recognition they deserve on the wider international scene. That may soon change. The Moldovan Government's Competitiveness Enhancement Project (CEP), co-financed by the World Bank and the Government of Japan, is helping local producers to get internationally recognized quality certificates, and to develop national standards compatible with EU norms. The objective is to boost the ability of Moldovan products to compete internationally, especially in the EU market. In parallel, the project aims to reduce regulatory barriers to business start up and development, so that would be entrepreneurs can more easily see their ideas flourish. " It's getting easier to do business in Moldova. Over the past seven years, the time it takes to go into business has been reduced by two thirds. A new set of standards will make it easier for Moldovan business to compete not only in Europe , but worldwide, and will ensure products of comparable quality. " Victor Burunsus Private Sector Development Specialist with the World Bank's Moldova office Chateau Vartely is a Moldovan winery that employs 350 people, exports to more than 20 countries, and produces over 1 million bottles each year. Conforming to international quality management standards has meant that business here is much better now, but it used to be more of a struggle to export their product. “In the former Soviet Union , we used to apply the Soviet standards and norms, which over 10-15 years didn't evolve very much. When we started exporting our wines to European countries, it turned out we couldn't because the quality was too low,” said Arcadie Fosnea, Director of Technical Operations for Chateau Vartely. “It was totally worth it to have the international quality standards. When the inspectors were here, there was little they could object to.” In addition to being a Guinness World Record holder for the world's longest cellar (they have 55 km of tunnels), Milestii Mici is a competing winery that makes between 40 and 50 different wines for export every year. They have benefitted from targeting European markets for export, but the progress can be slow going at times because Moldovan wines aren't well known. Despite this, sales staff are optimistic. Sales are picking up, and they have already covered the cost of changing to meet the international quality standards. The project does not just benefit wineries. Other companies that are doing better because of the project have exports as diverse as dried fruits, software, canned goods, carpets, and meat and dairy products. By making easier for businesses to grow and export, the CEP project is helping to create jobs and ultimately, reduce poverty. RELATED WORLD BANK World Bank in Moldova Competitiveness Enhancement Project MULTIMEDIA Video VIDEO Building a Better Business Environment in Moldova Moldova Europe and Central Asia Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.