Bridging the Skills Gap: How Real-Time Job Vacancy Data Can Reshape Employment Strategies in Argentina and Uruguay Who We Are News This page in: English Español This page in: English Español FEATURE STORY August 18, 2025 Bridging the Skills Gap: How Real-Time Job Vacancy Data Can Reshape Employment Strategies in Argentina and Uruguay Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Banco Mundial/Juan Ignacio Coda Researchers analyzed online job postings in Argentina and Uruguay to create a real-time labor market "thermometer" and a map of in-demand jobs. Finding pathways for workers to transition into in-demand roles with similar skill sets will be crucial as AI reshapes the jobs landscape. Read the Report In a world grappling with rapidly evolving job markets, have you ever wondered if we could predict the skills that employers will need? A new World Bank report analyzed online job posting data to gain near real-time insight into the demand for jobs and skills in Argentina and Uruguay. The report shows that a more immediate and precise understanding of what employers are looking for is possible so that their demands can be met and, at the same time, so that workers can develop the appropriate skills. The analysis provides a near real-time "thermometer" of the economy with the potential to anticipate employment and unemployment trends. This could allow policymakers to act more quickly than with classic data sources such as surveys and administrative records. The report identifies the following trends: More than half of the vacancies in Argentina and Uruguay require technical, socio-emotional, and cognitive skills . Digital skills are also highly sought after. Manual skills are less frequently requested. In Argentina and Uruguay, intermediate digital skills are the most requested ; linguistic skills are highly demanded among cognitive ones, and organizational and communication skills among socio-emotional ones. Within technical competencies, there is greater demand for areas of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM), followed by management competencies. Complementarity between skills is also observed. For example, cognitive skills frequently appear in job advertisements alongside digital and socio-emotional skills, which suggests that companies seek combinations of these competencies. A map of in-demand jobs To understand the similarity between jobs that are more and less in demand, the authors created a map of occupational similarity Understanding Labor Market Demand in Real Time The map shows that workers in low-demand occupations have options to transition to medium- and high-demand occupations that have similar skill sets. This is good news for the design of reskilling and upskilling programs: low-demand jobs frequently share skills with medium- and high-demand jobs meaning that policymakers can focus on the provision of certain missing skills to facilitate job transitions. By providing detailed information on skill demand and connections between occupations, this data can better guide job seekers, training institutions, and policymakers to respond and adapt to labor market needs. As a first step in operationalizing this data, the World Bank is working with the government of Argentina to test a tool that recommends training courses according to job seekers' skills, while also considering the demand for these skills based on the job posting data. RELATED Download the report: Spanish: Entendiendo la Demanda del Mercado laboral de Argentina y Uruguay en Tiempo Real English: Understanding Labor Market Demand in Real Time in Argentina and Uruguay We ask users to cite the data as follows: Vezza, Evelyn, Gonzalo Zunino, Luis Laguinge, Harry Moroz, Ignacio Raul Apella, and Marla Hillary Spivack. “Understanding Labor Market Demand in Real Time in Argentina and Uruguay.” Policy Research Working Paper 11086, World Bank, Washington D.C. Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×