World Bank supports Morocco's Commitment to Advancing Social Safety Nets for Human Development Who We Are News This page in: English Français العربية This page in: English Français العربية PRESS RELEASE June 19, 2025 World Bank supports Morocco's Commitment to Advancing Social Safety Nets for Human Development Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina WASHINGTON, June 19, 2025 – The World Bank's Board of Directors has approved a US$250 million financing package to support Morocco's ambitious social protection reform through the Support to Strengthening of Social Safety Nets for Human Development Project. This initiative is designed to contribute to enhancing the effectiveness of Morocco's social protection system by improving access and delivery of cash transfers as well as expanding the social benefit package for vulnerable households. Morocco has made significant economic and development progress over the past two decades through social protection reforms, resulting in improved living standards and expanded access to essential services. While challenges such as high unemployment and low female labor force participation persist, the country remains committed to fostering inclusive growth. Despite recent external challenges such as drought and inflation, Morocco is focused on overcoming these obstacles to further reduce poverty and enhance resilience, particularly in rural areas. In December 2023, the Government launched the Direct Social Benefit (DSB) program as a key component of the national social protection reform. As of March 2025, the program reaches over 3.9 million households. The World Bank project aims to support the National Agency for Social Support (ANSS) with the DSB program, which focuses on enhancing access to cash assistance for poor and vulnerable households and facilitating socio-economic support through improved access to social services and productive economic inclusion programs. It aims to strengthen human capital development and improve the inclusion and climate resilience of poor, vulnerable populations in rural and remote areas by combining cash transfers with social services and economic inclusion. Using a results-based and citizen-centered approach, it will seek to provide immediate economic support while enabling long-term resilience and human capital development, optimizing public spending, and fostering participation in the labor market. " Morocco has demonstrated resilience in the face of multiple challenges, with the national poverty rate reaching 3.8 percent in 2022. Despite rising income inequality and vulnerability, there is a strong opportunity to enhance integrated social safety nets by enabling households to invest in human capital, participate in economic opportunities, and withstand economic shocks, particularly in rural and climate-stressed areas. ," said Ahmadou Moustapha Ndiaye, Division Director for the Maghreb and Malta at the World Bank . " Moreover, by leveraging the innovative features of the DSB program, the project aims to promote access to employment and care services to enhance women's and youth participation in the labor force." This program will also support the ANSS in strengthening the governance of the DSB program and improve coordination with other public institutions, ministries, and agencies responsible for social services. Additionally, the project will enhance DSB delivery systems by leveraging its innovative mechanisms. Contacts In Washington Nicholas Keyes nkeyes@worldbankgroup.org In Morocco Meryam Benjelloun mbenjelloun@worldbankgroup.org RELATED The World Bank in Morocco The World Bank in MENA Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×