Dedication to Service Who We Are News FEATURE STORY March 29, 2021 Dedication to Service Email Print Tweet Share Share LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Sabrina Dangol/World Bank Nepal Kanchi Deula, Sanitation Worker Kanchi Deula , 53, has been working as a sanitation worker for Lalitpur Municipality for almost 30 years now. Originally from Chitlang, she moved to Bangalamukhi in Patan after her marriage and then got her job in the municipality as a sweeper. She has been earning her living and supporting her family with it. During the lockdown, when everything stopped, Kanchi’s work did not. She needed to go to the office and was assigned to locations around Patan area on a rotational basis with her fellow workers. The work was not particularly challenging during the lockdown, as there was less movement of people and less litter on the roads to clean. However, there was a lot of fear around the virus and a sense of eeriness as everything felt deserted. While proper masks and PPE kits were not available initially, arrangements were made later for masks, sanitisers, and handwashing stations as the lockdown progressed. She says she prefered working despite the fear rather than staying home, and ensured she followed all safety measures before entering her home after work. With Kathmandu Valley returning to some level of normalcy, Kanchi goes about her work as usual now but continues practicing the required safety measures which she had learnt during the lockdown. Share us on Twitter! This story is one of 23 stories spotlighting women from Nepal who are breaking the mold through their stories of resilience, hope, and grit amid the COVID19 pandemic. Read all the stories here . RELATED OTHER STORIES IN THIS SERIES The Director’s Cut Upholding a Legacy Between the Plateau and Plains Against the Odds Power of Perseverance Holding on to Hope The Everest Summiteer Teaching as a future In the Frontline Leading by Example Eye in the Sky Strength, In & Out of the Ring Finding Her Calling The Muse in Music Making a Stand In the Driving Seat The Olympics in her sight Hope on a Plate Rising Above Adversity Api Api Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->