Food Price Watch: Home --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Understanding Poverty Topics Poverty publication Food Price Watch: Home This page in: Español Français العربية English Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> This page is no longer being updated. For the latest, please visit our Food Security Update and Commodity Markets pages. Curt Carnemark / World Bank The Food Price Watch report highlights trends in domestic food prices in low- and middle-income countries, and outlines the policy implications of food price fluctuations. Scroll down to read the most recent issue as well as all past issues in the series. The June 2015 issue of Food Price Watch found that international food prices declined by 14% between August 2014 and May 2015, sliding into a five-year low. Prices declined across key food commodities and are the result of a continuously improving production outlook and abundant food stocks. In this issue we also reflect on current low oil prices, and the potential impact this might have on global food prices, poverty, and inequality. Press Release Global Food Prices Drop to a Five-Year Low " Such a sharp decline in international food prices is welcome, especially given the increases we’ve seen recently. However, as food prices continue to fluctuate and the most vulnerable are faced with new and growing concerns, it is essential to have the tools in place to act quickly if and when food price crises unfold. " Ana Revenga Senior Director, Poverty Global Practice, World Bank Group PAST ISSUES 2014 September 2014: Year 5, Issue 18 Global food prices hit a four-year low in August 2014, reversing the increases from earlier in the year. The World Bank Group launched the Food Price Crisis Observatory . Website Food Price Crisis Observatory Blog Aren't Food Prices Going Down? So Why Are We Still Talking About Them? Press Release International Food Prices Hit Four-Year Low: New World Bank Group Tool Focuses on Preparedness for Potential Future Crises Replay Live Chat Preparing for the Next Food Price Crisis May 2014: Year 5, Issue 17 Global food prices rose between January and April 2014, for the first time since August 2012. This edition breaks down global and domestic food price trends, and takes a closer look at the role of food prices in riots and political instability. Blog "No Food, No Peace" Press Release First Quarterly Global Food Price Increase Since August 2012; Report Highlights Role of Food Prices in Riots Video Rising Food Prices Could Exacerbate Instability Replay Live Chat Rising Prices and their Role in Food Riots February 2014: Year 5, Issue 16 This quarter, we saw that global food prices declined between October 2013 and January 2014, but at a slower pace than the previous quarter. This edition breaks down global and domestic food price trends, and takes a closer look at global food loss and waste as a barrier to food security and poverty reduction. Blog Food Waste: Doing the Math Blog Is the World Turning a Corner on High Food Prices? Video World Bank President Jim Yong Kim on Food Loss and Waste Replay Live Chat How Much Food Do You Waste? " The amount of food wasted and lost globally is shameful. Millions of people around the world go to bed hungry every night, and yet millions of tons of food end up in trash cans or spoiled on the way to market. We have to tackle this problem in every country in order to improve food security and to end poverty. " Jim Yong Kim President, World Bank Group 2013 November 2013: Year 4, Issue 15 Global food prices declined between June and October 2013, but remain close to their all-time highs. This edition explores the drivers of this decline, and highlights concerns for the coming months such as unpredictable weather conditions in high-producing areas. Later in the report, author José Cuesta sits down for a Q&A on Super Farms. Blog Are Super Farms the Solution to the World's Food Insecurity Challenge? Ten Questions You Need to Ask Yourself Blog Hedging Food Price Risks in a World of Uncertainty July 2013: Year 4, Issue 14 Global food prices declined for three consecutive quarters, then rose in May and June, remaining close to historical peaks. Some countries with high poverty and weak safety nets are now responding to this chronic volatility by scaling up consumer food subsidies, but these are often counter-productive. March 2013: Year 4, Issue 13 Global food prices saw six consecutive months of decline, but still remain very high and close to their historical peaks. These high and volatile food prices not only influence conditions of hunger and undernutrition, but also obesity, which may increase in the context of high prices as people opt for cheaper, less nutritious food to feed their families. 2012 November 2012: Year 3, Issue 12 Even as the world seems to have averted a global food price crisis, a growing sense of a “new norm” of high and volatile prices seems to be consolidating. The world cannot afford to get used to or become complacent with high and volatile food prices. August 2012: Year 3, Issue 11 Abrupt food price increases, triggered by droughts in the U.S. and Eastern Europe, have turned favorable prospects for the year upside down. World Bank experts do not currently foresee a repeat of 2008, but additional negative factors could push the situation in a critical direction. April 2012: Year 3, Issue 10 Global food prices rose by 8 percent during the first quarter of 2012 and were just 6 percent below their February 2011 historical peak in March. All key food prices except rice jumped due to bad weather and expensive oil. January 2012: Year 3, Issue 9 Food prices have fallen since peaking a year ago. Still, the 2011 annual food index exceeded the 2010 average by 24 percent. People worldwide are trying to adjust. 2011 November 2011: Year 2, Issue 8 Global food prices remain high and volatile, but growing food supplies and a lackluster economy may improve the situation in coming months. August 2011: Year 2, Issue 7 Global food prices remain near their peak levels from 2008 and domestic food prices continue to fluctuate widely, putting the poorest people at greater risk. April 2011: Year 2, Issue 6 Poor people in poorer countries are facing higher food inflation. We need urgent policies and actions to minimize the burden on the poor. February 2011: Year 2, Issue 5 The World Bank's food price index increased by 15 percent between October 2010 and January 2011 and is only 3 percent below its 2008 peak. Estimates of those who fall into, and move out of, poverty as a result of price rises since June 2010 show there is a net increase in extreme poverty of about 44 million people in low- and middle-income countries. 2010 December 2010: Year 1, Issue 4 The World Bank food price index rose by 17% between August and November 2010 and is now 11% below its June 2008 peak in nominal terms and 8% below the peak in real terms. Adverse weather conditions in major cereal producing countries have contributed to price rises for wheat, maize and rice. September 2010: Year 1, Issue 3 In the first six months of 2010, global staple grain prices were on a downward trend. While in many countries staple food prices remained stable, staple prices still increased sharply in some countries with high levels of poverty. May 2010: Year 1, Issue 2 Analysis of domestic staple food price data since 2006 suggests that food price volatility is a growing concern. In recent months domestic food prices have risen sharply in South Asia and in parts of Sub-Saharan Africa, even though global grain prices have declined over the past year. February 2010: Year 1, Issue 1 While the global focus on food prices has waned, domestic staple food prices in several countries have experienced double digit increases in 2009, particularly in Sub-Saharan Africa. This issue highlights countries where such increases are most significant and estimate that the impact on undernourishment, or hunger, has been as much as 8% in 2009. Disaster Risk Management Poverty Food Price Watch is followed by development professionals, students, journalists, economists and others with an interest in global food markets and nutrition. Click here to subscribe. More on Food Price Watch Meet José Cuesta, Author Meet Julie Barbet-Gros, Consultant Meet Maura K. Leary, Communications Officer Learn about Poverty Learn about Food Security RELATED BLOG High Food Prices and the Global Epidemic of Obesity LIVE CHAT (REPLAY) Declining Food Prices and the Role of Subsidies MULTIMEDIA Video VIDEO World Bank Says Food Prices Dropping From All-Time Highs Contact the Team Author José Cuesta Email Consultant Julie Barbet-Gros Email --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.