Philip Dongsoo Hong Home Who We Are Experts Philip Dongsoo Hong Philip Dongsoo Hong Senior Financial Officer, Treasury, TRE Contacts Philip on LinkedIn AREAS OF EXPERTISE Financial Sector Financial Market Integrity Philip Dongsoo Hong is the Senior Financial Officer and Engagement Manager of the Reserve Advisory and Management Partnership (RAMP) at the World Bank Treasury. He is responsible for coordinating and developing technical assistance for RAMP members and partners. Before joining the World Bank, Philip worked at the Bank of Korea (BOK) in various positions for over twenty-five years - mostly in reserve management, financial stability, and research. He was Deputy Director-General and Head of the Investment Strategy Team in the Reserve Management Group from 2014-2015, responsible for the tactical asset allocation and active management of the BOK's foreign reserves. From 2011 to 2013, he served as Head of the Global Agenda Team, coordinating G20 meetings and working groups such as Capital Flow Management and Global Liquidity. He also served as Head of the Strategic Planning Team responsible for bank-wide strategic priorities and operational risk management. Before that, he was an Investment Officer at BOK's New York Office, managing USD portfolios comprising Treasuries, Agencies, Corporates, MBS, and ABS during the global financial crisis from 2007 to 2010. Outside the Bank of Korea, in 2002, he worked as a visiting research fellow for the Secretariat of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, leading a survey on risk management for non-G10 countries regarding Basel II. From 2006 to 2007, he served as a senior advisor to the Senior Secretary to the President for economic affairs, coordinating inter-departmental issues in Korea. Philip earned a Ph.D. in Economics from Dongguk University in Seoul and an MA in Economics from the University of Michigan. He also earned his MBA and BA in Business Administration from Korea University in Seoul. Philip is a CFA charter holder. MORE FROM Philip Dongsoo Hong Publications Projects Blog posts