Latin America: Increase in Number of Retirees with the Right to a Pension --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Latin America: Increase in Number of Retirees with the Right to a Pension March 13, 2014 This page in: English Español Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> STORY HIGHLIGHTS Around 11 million adults over age 65 who had been excluded from pension systems were able to receive benefits. In Latin America there are approximately 290 million people of working age. Fifty-five percent of them do not contribute to any pension system One solution to this problem would be to improve labor market formality to ensure that workers make regular contributions. Throughout her life, Blanca Guido worked many jobs – child care provider, secretary, hotel employee – but since she never made significant contributions to a pension system, she had to work until age 70. When she finally decided it was time to retire, she filed some paperwork with the Argentinian government agency to receive a pension equivalent to the amount of money she contributed. However, if it were not for financial support from her daughter, she would have difficulty making it to the end of the month. Does this story sound familiar? While Blanca’s situation serves as an example of the improvements in Latin American pension systems, it also reflects a troubling reality: of the 50 million older adults in the region, some 40% do not have the right to a pension because they have not made contributions throughout their working life. A quick calculation reveals that in Latin America today, there are approximately 290 million people of working age. Fifty-five percent of them, in other words, 160 million, do not contribute to any pension system. Apart from their statistical interest, these data suggest that many Latin Americans no longer receive income when they reach retirement age. In many cases, this forces them to keep working beyond a reasonable age, spend their savings or depend on the generosity of their families. But relying on families has an economic impact, particularly if they have limited resources, because they must allocate some of their income to the care of their elderly members. “One solution to this problem would be to improve labor market formality to ensure that workers make regular contributions. At any rate, to resolve the situation of many older adults requires moving beyond traditional contributory pensions,” says Rafael Rofman, World Bank pension expert and author of the study Beyond contributory pensions in Latin America and the Caribbean. The expert observes that thanks to economic growth over the past decade, formal employment increased, and with it, more people entered contributory systems. Currently, 45% of workers contribute to a pension system, as compared with 35% 15 years ago. These winds of global economic change convinced Latin American governments of the need to establish reforms in pension systems. As a result, approximately 11 million adults over age 65 who had been excluded from such systems were able to receive benefits. " To resolve the situation of many older adults requires moving beyond traditional contributory pensions " Rafael Rofman World Bank pension expert Universal or selective pensions? Policy strategies developed in the region in recent years established three different lines of action. A first group of countries, comprised of Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Panama and Uruguay, opted to include older adults who during their working life did not make contributions to pension systems. Common measures included facilitating entry into the contributory system by relaxing some requirements or simplifying procedures. Other countries – such as Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Mexico, Paraguay and Peru–, which did not have the necessary resources, decided to focus on vulnerable groups and granted pensions to the most disadvantaged citizens through their own social security institutions. A third group is formed only by Bolivia and Trinidad and Tobago. Their strategy has been to grant pensions to all older adults, regardless of whether or not they worked. “These strategies appear to be working and the overall situation is improving. However, two clear challenges remain: one is political, social and design consolidation whereas the other is fiscal sustainability, in other words, they have to be paid,” says Rofman. Given that these programs were launched in a favorable economic context, one of the most pressing challenges is to guarantee pensions in less favorable economic situations. RELATED WORLD BANK World Bank in Latin America and the Caribbean Report: Beyond contributory pensions in Latin America and the Caribbean (s) Press Release: Latin America: Innovative Reforms Expand Pension Access by 11 Million People Argentina Latin America and Caribbean Bolivia Brazil Chile Colombia Costa Rica Dominican Republic Ecuador El Salvador Guatemala Honduras Mexico Panama Paraguay Peru Uruguay Venezuela View More + Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.