Independent Power Projects in Sub-Saharan Africa – Lessons from Five Key Countries --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Understanding Poverty Topics Energy publication Independent Power Projects in Sub-Saharan Africa – Lessons from Five Key Countries This page in: English Français Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> STORY HIGHLIGHTS Independent power projects (IPPs) essential to electrify Sub-Saharan Africa, according to new World Bank report Report draws on case studies from five African countries that have the most experience with IPPs and finds that a sound investment climate is crucial to attract private investment in the sector Currently, close to 600 million people in Sub-Saharan Africa live without electricity access, underlining the reality that the region simply does not generate enough power to meet its needs. Given Africa’s power sector needs far exceed most countries’ already stretched public finances, it is crucial for governments to attract greater levels of private investment to scale up generation capacity and help take electricity to those who need it most, according to a new report released by the World Bank. “Independent Power Projects in Sub-Saharan Africa—Lessons from Five Key Countries” draws on case studies carried out in Kenya, Nigeria, South Africa, Tanzania and Uganda—countries that have the most experience with IPPs in the region—to recommend ways to create healthy investment climates for future projects in the region. The report evaluates the use of IPPs and highlights the challenges policymakers face and factors that can lead to scaled-up and sustainable power sector investment. To attract the private sector, governments must provide a sound investment climate and enabling environment, the report finds. Enabling factors for an attractive investment climate for IPPs include: More competitive procurement efforts from countries in Sub-Saharan Africa, which includes encouraging long-term contracts through a competitive bidding process. This can help secure reduced prices and help avert other issues, such as the possibility of a problematic contract. If direct negotiations are conducted, they should be done transparently. Clear and conducive energy sector policies, structures and regulatory environment. Systematic and dynamic power sector planning, including the ability to accurately project future electricity demand, determine best supply or demand management options and anticipate how long it will take to procure, finance, and build the required electricity generation capacity. Financial viability of the public utility is vital. Given issues such as high losses, poor billing and collections, it will be important to mitigate risk through measures that include providing financial guarantees and security measures to assuage new investors. Currently, there are 126 IPPs in 18 Sub-Saharan countries, accounting for an installed capacity of 11 GW and $25.6 billion in investments. But to benefit more countries the report recommends these IPPs should be much larger and spread across the region. RELATED World Bank in Africa RELATED REPORT Independent Power Projects in Sub-Saharan Africa: Lessons from Five Key Countries PRESS RELEASE Independent Power Projects Essential to Electrify Sub-Saharan Africa, New Report Finds Jun 22, 2016 Ending Energy Poverty Video VIDEO Ending Energy Poverty Home --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.