Life After Death --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News OPINION Life After Death October 29, 2013 This page in: English Српски Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Tony Verheijen, Country Manager for Serbia B92 Blog There is a company in the heart of Sumadija with a few hundred workers, which has been lingering hardly alive for decades. It is sitting on a large plot of land that has no use. The company used to produce goods that barely have a market nowadays. Next to it is a brand new private company, with a thriving business. The young company would like to expand and needs additional land to do so. Can it buy the land which belongs to its neighbors? Well, it can’t! The first company is kept alive thanks to government subsidies, which means that Serbian tax payers cover its costs. Do you think it is prudent to continue with this? Wouldn’t it be better to close it down – through bankruptcy – and turn its dead capital – like the land around it – to profitable use? Don’t you think that some of the workers would be able to find a job in the new, thriving private company? Social program can help the others. Maybe there will be other private entrepreneurs who would be willing to invest in other parts of this company and thus creating more jobs. I am telling you this story because it seems to me there are very few people in Serbia who understand how bankruptcy works and why it is not the end of the world. In a way it is a new beginning. It makes an economy more vibrant and – whether you believe it or not – in the medium run it creates more jobs. The members of the government of Serbia are aware of this and that is why – among other things – they decided to change the law which regulates bankruptcy. They want to make the process simpler and more structured. There is a plenty of empirical evidence around the world that this is a right thing to do. In some cases even the whole cities managed to revive themselves through these processes – take the example of Pittsburg. There is life after death! Of course, this is only a part of the government policy to put the public finances in order and to build business environment conducive to vibrant development of profitable private firms, which will create new jobs. Companies like the one from the beginning drain some 250-300 million Euros annually from public finances. I do hope majority of Serbian citizens will support this courageous endeavor, just like we, from the World Bank, do. RELATED World Bank in Serbia Media Contacts Belgrade Vesna Kostic Tel : +381 11 30 23 700 vkostic@worldbank.org Serbia Europe and Central Asia Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.