NASA and NOAA Launch Coastal Flooding Innovation Challenge - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Back to climate , updates NASA and NOAA Launch Coastal Flooding Innovation Challenge By Ana Pinheiro Privette · March 06, 2014 Want to solve an innovation challenge to address climate change? The International Space Apps Challenge is an international mass collaboration offering four climate-related challenges, including… Coastal Inundation in Your Community Coastal communities are becoming increasingly vulnerable to the risk of damage and danger from flooding. Your challenge is to create tools and provide information so communities can prepare for coastal inundation. Through the use of data, visualizations, citizen engagement, and simulations, you can help people understand their exposure to coastal inundation hazards and their increased vulnerability due to population increase and sea level rise. Space Apps is a two-day event (April 12-13, 2014) that has about 40 challenges organized around Earth and space themes. Teams of technologists, scientists, designers, artists, educators entrepreneurs, developers and students across the globe collaborate and engage with publicly available data to design innovative solutions for global challenges. Visit the resources tab to find datasets, web services, and tools that will help you compete in the Space Apps Challenge on the coastal impacts of climate change. About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov