PPPs for policy making: a visual guide to using data from the ICP International Comparison Program (ICP) Briefs PPPs for policy making: a visual guide to using data from the ICP - Chapter 3: Trade and competitiveness Email Print Tweet Share Share LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> This page is optimized for viewing in a desktop browser. Mobile device users may prefer to view a pdf of the publication with links to interactive visualizations and access to underlying data. Competitiveness The World Economic Forum (WEF) uses PPPs and PPP-based indicators in two indexes measuring competitiveness. First, the Global Competitiveness Index identifies twelve main drivers of productivity or pillars , and pillar 10 assesses market size ( map 3.1 ). The inputs for this indicator include PPP-based GDP. Second, the Travel and Tourism Competitiveness Index measures the set of factors and policies that enable the sustainable development of the travel and tourism sector which, in turn, contributes to the development and competitiveness of a country. Pillar 8 of the index covers price competitiveness and is composed of four indicators measuring how costly it is to travel or invest in a country. They include the ratio of a country’s PPP to the official market exchange rate alongside the index of the relative cost of access (ticket taxes and airport charges) to international air transport services, the hotel price index, and fuel price levels. The higher the index value, the more competitive the country is on price ( map 3.2 ). Furthermore, ICP price level data on restaurants and hotels in each of its participating economies can also add to the information available to policy makers looking to boost tourism to their country ( map 3.3 ). RELATED MAIN PAGE Acknowledgments Abbreviations Introduction Uses and limitations of Purchasing Power Parities Chapter 1: The size of the economy and price levels Size of the economy Per capita measures Price levels Subnational analyses Chapter 2: Poverty and inequality Poverty Inequality and shared prosperity Chapter 3: Trade and competitiveness Competitiveness Market convergence Productivity Chapter 4: Labor costs, wages, and social safety nets Labor costs Wages Social safety nets Chapter 5: Food and nutrition Food security and nutrition Food consumption Chapter 6: Health Health expenditures Health outcomes Chapter 7: Education Education expenditures Education outcomes Chapter 8: Energy and climate Energy efficiency Emissions and climate change Chapter 9: Infrastructure Investment Transport Information and communication technology Research and development Chapter 10: Human Development Human Development Index Gender Development Index Better Life Index Chapter 11: Administrative uses Administrative uses Technical note Presentation of data Concepts and definitions ICP classification of expenditures and indicators Further resources Annex References Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->