Philippines: CSF to Help Improve Transparency in Naga City People's Council --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Philippines: CSF to Help Improve Transparency in Naga City People's Council August 17, 2011 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> STORY HIGHLIGHTS In Naga City, Philippines, six barangays (villages) are leading the way in transparency, partnership, and accountability-building between their Barangay Councils and their communities Through a Civil Society Fund (CSF) grant from the World Bank, the Naga City People's Council (NCPC) will implement training programs for Barangay Councils Three other CSO-led projects were selected to be supported by the CSF in the Philippines Naga City, August 17, 2011 —Six barangays (villages) in the City of Naga in the Philippines are leading the way in transparency, partnership and accountability-building between their Barangay Councils and their communities. Through a Civil Society Fund (CSF) grant from the World Bank, the Naga City People's Council (NCPC) will implement training programs on: the official duties and accountabilities of Barangay Councils; institutionalizing public commitments to service standards; and participatory development planning and governance, including public access to policies and official documents through a barangay website. NCPC Project Team Leader Johann dela Rosa believes the project reshapes the idea of civil society organizations (CSOs) so that "you do not only push the agenda, but also change the process of government so you can push the agenda effectively." In a site visit on August 5, 2011, the CSF Coordinator in the Philippines Henry Grageda witnessed a capability-building program for Barangay Council of Concepcion, led by its Chairperson, Mr. Elmer Baldemor. Three other CSO-led projects were selected to be supported by the CSF in the Philippines. They include: "Empowering Marginalized Sectors towards More Proactive Involvement for Good Governance” implemented by Antique Foundation of NGOs, Inc. (AFON) at the municipality of San Remigio, Antique province. "Citizen Engagement for Effective Barangay Budget Utilization Project,” implemented by Kaabag sa Sugbu Foundation, Inc. at Mandaue City, Cebu City and Lapu-Lapu City. "Building the capacity of indigenous men and women in Quezon, Palawan to participate in local governance,” implemented by the Institute for the Development of Educational and Ecological Alternatives (IDEAS). RELATED WORLD BANK World Bank Social Development Civil Society Fund Naga City People's Council Philippines East Asia Pacific Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.