I'd Like You To Know --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work East Asia Pacific publication I'd Like You To Know Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Just as a picture is worth a thousand words, a “voice” can be worth a hundred statistics. In this book you will see the pictures and hear the voices of our partners in development: a mother cradling her little boy who is alive because of a new health facility in Cambodia; a school principal in Beijing who talks with passion about how her school is part of the solar energy wave; a cocoa farmer in Papua New Guinea who happily works with youth to help them build a sustainable crop and a sustainable future; a village chief in Lao PDR who lovingly holds his grandson and talks about the better life he now knows the boy can have; and a student in Vietnam whose life changed when she received a scholarship. Together they present powerful stories of how projects can affect and transform lives, and offer us a memorable glimpse behind the numbers. At the end of the day the work we do in development is not just about numbers; it’s about supporting people to change their own lives for the better, to build a future for their children and, with a little help, to pull themselves out of poverty. We hope you remember the people you will meet in the pages of this book. They put a human face on development statistics. They are testimony to the power of seemingly small things that gave them an opportunity to build a better life for themselves, their families, their communities. As they tell their stories, they give us a sense of how they are succeeding, with courage and determination, to change their own lives and the world around them. They represent millions of other men and women who are transforming their communities and countries into more prosperous societies. We are privileged to support their efforts in creating a better world for themselves and their children. Cambodia East Asia Pacific China Indonesia Republic of Korea Lao PDR Malaysia Mongolia Myanmar Pacific Islands Papua New Guinea Philippines Singapore Thailand Timor-Leste Viet Nam View More + Interactive Magazine I'd Like You To Know Click on this zmag to read the stories and watch videos in “I’d Like You to Know”, a photobook with inspiring stories of how small things can make a big difference for people in East Asia and the Pacific. Read more Read their stories Siti Robe'ah Kelson Hosea Sudirman RELATED GET THE BOOK: I'D LIKE YOU TO KNOW Read it on Issuu Download a copy View the interactive magazine (Zmag) --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.