Albania Country Manager Remarks at Launch of Grants Program under Environmental Services Project --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News Speeches & Transcripts Albania Country Manager Remarks at Launch of Grants Program under Environmental Services Project May 16, 2016 This page in: English Shqip Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Tahseen Sayed, Country Manager for Albania Launch of the Grants Program under the Environment Services Project, May 13, 2016 Tirana, Albania As Prepared for Delivery Honorable Minister Koka, Minister Panariti, Head of the Swedish International Cooperation, and Distinguished Guests, I would like to thank you for the invitation to join the launching of the grants program supported by the Environmental Services Project. The $22 million Project is funded by the Swedish Government, the Global Environment Facility and the World Bank. It seeks to contribute to Albania’s goal of protecting the country’s rich natural resources by increasing productivity and sustainability of land use. The project is well aligned with the World Bank Group’s Environment Strategy and the objectives of the World Bank Group’s Country Partnership Framework for Albania. With over 52 percent of surface area under forest cover, the Albanian forestry sector holds tremendous potential to support economic growth, rural development and enhancement of livelihoods of the local population – men and women. At present, most of the forest and pasture transferred at the local level suffers from significant soil erosion and unsustainable forestry and agricultural practices. Sustainable land management and community practices are essential to preserve the rich natural resources and enhance agricultural productivity. Over the past decade, there have been several reform efforts in the sector including substantial changes in the roles, mandates and relationships among the state, local government, traditional users and the private sector. About sixty percent of the state owned forest and pasture has been transferred to local government ownership and additional 20 percent is being transferred to Municipalities. These institutional, legal and administrative measures need to be complemented by strong participation of the traditional users in the planning and management of the forest, backed by capacity strengthening measures. Global experiences demonstrate that transfer of responsibilities to local levels of governance needs to be complemented by significant hands-on support to strengthen capacities. I am pleased that the ESP project supports the preparation and registration of forest and pasture management plans, as well as training on sustainable management of forest and pasture. It also supports joint activities to be carried out at the National level and at Local level, like the National Forestry Inventory and the Albania Forestry Information System. The Euro 4 million ESP grants program being launched today aims to provide rural communities with alternative livelihood opportunities and income. We expect it to also strengthen capacities in the Ministry of Environment, and the Agriculture Rural Development Agency (ARDA) under the Ministry of Agriculture to implement EU policies and programs. The grants will be provided to the forestry owners and traditional users for investments in forests and pastures, to restore, preserve and enhance upland ecosystems while addressing the challenge of climate change. The grants’ design benefits from regional experiences with supporting capacity development of institutions and beneficiaries to implement the EU Instrument of Pre-accession Assistance for Rural Development (IPARD) Program and Funding as soon as it becomes available. Lessons from regional experience demonstrate that it is necessary for Government to prepare its institutions, establish structures and procedures required by the EU to disburse the IPARD funds allocated for the Country, and also build the institutions’ knowledge to implement EU procedures. Second important lesson is that fund absorption will remain low if beneficiaries are not ready to apply and implement a completely different system of government assistance. Therefore, it is critical to strengthen beneficiary capacity to apply for and manage such grants. A step-wise approach, through a gradual introduction of the future IPARD requirements, and learning by doing, can contribute towards establishing clarity in the engagement between the financing institutions and beneficiaries. Albania has already made some progress in implementing IPARD-like support to the agriculture sector. Today’s event marks a critical next step for the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and its Agriculture and Rural Development Agency to establish a system to support the forestry sector in a transparent manner by introducing the IPARD core principles, and supporting the beneficiaries to learn how to apply for funds in a competitive manner. For a successful implementation, it is essential for all actors to fully understand and follow the procedures and for the process to be transparent. Due to its cross-cutting nature, strong collaboration among the partner institutions is required. This is the first time such type of grants are being provided to the forestry sector in Albania, and we have high hopes that the experience will be both successful and sustainable. In closing, I wish you a successful implementation of the first round of the ESP grants! Albania Europe and Central Asia Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.