Over One Million Zambians to be Connected to Electricity by 2030 Under New Energy Access Project Who We Are News PRESS RELEASE July 28, 2025 Over One Million Zambians to be Connected to Electricity by 2030 Under New Energy Access Project Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina LUSAKA, July 28, 2025 —The World Bank Board of Executive Directors has approved a $200 million International Development Association (IDA)* grant for the 13th phase of the Accelerating Sustainable and Clean Energy Access Transformation (ASCENT) Program which is set to provide reliable and sustainable energy services to more than one million beneficiaries in Zambia within the next five years. The ASCENT Zambia project not only focuses on connecting Zambians living in remote and underserved communities, it also aims to supply reliable and affordable power to businesses and industries in Zambia which will in turn support economic growth and job creation. It will also scale up successful pilot projects, invest in new technologies, and build the capacity of local communities to manage and maintain energy infrastructure. “The ASCENT Zambia project is a testament of the World Bank’s commitment to supporting sustainable energy access for all Zambians in line with the Zambia National Energy Compact, under the Mission 300 Initiative,” said Yadviga Viktorivna Semikolenova , World Bank Practice Manager for Energy for Eastern and Southern Africa. “We are excited to embark on this new phase and look forward to the positive impact it will have on local communities.” The ASCENT Program employs a multi-phase approach to support countries across Eastern and Southern Africa to reach the Mission 300 target which aims to provide electricity access to 300 million people in Africa by 2030. The ASCENT Zambia project is the thirteenth phase in the region-wide program. “Partnerships are key to the success of the ASCENT Zambia project,” said Achim Fock, World Bank Country Manager for Zambia . “We are grateful for the support of all partners and look forward to working together to help foster economic growth in Zambia through the provision of reliable energy to businesses and industries.” *The World Bank’s International Development Association (IDA), established in 1960, helps the world’s poorest countries by providing grants and low to zero-interest loans for projects and programs that boost economic growth, reduce poverty, and improve poor people’s lives. IDA is one of the largest sources of assistance for the world’s 74 poorest countries, 39 of which are in Africa. Resources from IDA bring positive change to the 1.3 billion people who live in IDA countries. Since 1960, IDA has provided $496 billion to 114 countries. Annual commitments have increased steadily and averaged about $34.7 billion over the last three years (FY20-FY22), with about 70 percent going to Africa. Learn more online: IDA.worldbank.org. #IDAworks Contacts: In Zambia: Oarabile Minky Moilwa, omoilwa@worldbank.org In Washington: Daniella van Leggelo-Padilla, dvanleggelo@worldbank.org RELATED World Bank in Zambia Mission 300 is Powering Africa: Connecting 300 million People to Electricity Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×