World Bank Vice President for South Asia Visits Bhutan, Reiterates Strong Support Who We Are News PRESS RELEASE November 9, 2025 World Bank Vice President for South Asia Visits Bhutan, Reiterates Strong Support Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina THIMPHU , November 09, 2025 — The World Bank’s Vice President for South Asia, Johannes Zutt , today concluded a 5-day visit to Bhutan, reaffirming the World Bank Group’s robust partnership with the Kingdom and its expanding support for the nation's ambitious development agenda. Zutt visited the site in eastern Bhutan of the proposed 1,125 MW Dorjilung Hydroelectric Power Project, which is the country’s largest hydropower initiative being developed under a Public-Private Partnership model. The project is central to Bhutan's strategy to enhance energy security, boost economic growth and create jobs. The World Bank Group has brought together IDA, IBRD, and IFC to support the development of the proposed project. “The Dorjilung hydropower project could be a game-changer, bringing together public and private investment to deliver clean energy, create jobs, and strengthen Bhutan’s fiscal resilience through energy exports,” said Zutt . “ It also exemplifies how the World Bank Group can mobilize resources across its institutions to drive transformational impact, for Bhutan as well as for the South Asia region.” During his visit, Zutt met His Majesty The King Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck and His Majesty the Fourth King Jigme Singye Wangchuck and reaffirmed the World Bank Group’s continued support for achieving Bhutan’s economic and development aspirations. He also met with His Excellency Prime Minister Tshering Tobgay and Honorable Minister of Finance Lekey Dorji. “ I am delighted to return to this beautiful country and to have the opportunity to witness the Global Peace Prayer Festival. Bhutan has shown the world that it is possible to reduce poverty and boost economic growth while preserving nature and culture. We are proud to be part of this journey. The World Bank Group is supporting reforms and investments critical for achieving Bhutan’s bold vision for the coming decades. We will continue to help Bhutan build economic and climate resilience, mobilize private investment, and create quality jobs, particularly for its young people,” Zutt said. Zutt assumed his role as World Bank Vice President for the South Asia on July 1, 2025. He previously served as the World Bank’s Country Director for Bangladesh, Bhutan and Nepal from 2013 – 2015. This is his first visit to Bhutan in his new role. He was accompanied by the World Bank Division Director for Bangladesh and Bhutan, Jean Pesme. Contacts In Dhaka Mehrin Ahmed Mahbub mmahbub@worldbank.org In Washington Zia Morales xmorales@worldbankgroup.org RELATED The World Bank South Asia World Bank South Asia on Facebook World Bank South Asia on X Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×