Event | Report Launch: A Global Assessment of Building Codes by World Bank and Inter-American Development Bank Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events A Global Assessment of Building Codes Share Overview Agenda Speaker As global urbanization accelerates, with nearly 70% of the world’s population expected to live in cities by 2050, the built environment is under increasing pressure. To mitigate damage and disruption from these recurring challenges, buildings must be designed and constructed to withstand both sudden-onset and chronic hazards, while adhering to essential standards for structural safety, sustainability, and accessibility. Hosted by the Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery (GFDRR) and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), this event will launch the new report “ A Global Assessment of Building Codes: Current Status and Evolving Needs to Promote Resilient, Green, and Inclusive Buildings ”. Developed by the World Bank and IDB, with support from the Government of Japan, the report examines building codes and compliance in 22 countries. This global study builds on a previous regional study focused on Sub-Saharan Africa and complements the IDB’s 2024 report “ Resilience and Sustainability in Building Codes in Latin America and the Caribbean ”, which identified key gaps and opportunities for progress in the region. How can building codes help create safer, greener, and more inclusive buildings and address climate risks in fast-growing cities? This session will bring together global and regional experts to share practical experiences and policy insights, with a focus on Latin America and the Caribbean such as Chile, Colombia, El Salvador, Mexico, and Peru, and showcase examples of how stronger regulatory frameworks and better capacity can drive results. The session will conclude with a discussion on ways to strengthen regional collaboration and advance building code development and implementation. Program: • Date: Wednesday, July 9, 2025 • Time: 10:00 – 11:30 (D.C time) 90 min • Modality: Hybrid | room MC 8-140 | 1818 H Street, N.W. Washington, DC 20433 • Simultaneous interpretation available in English and Spanish Resources: Knowledge Reports: • A Global Assessment of Building Codes • Building Regulations in Sub-Saharan Africa Tools: • Building Regulatory Capacity Assessment 2.0 • Building Code Checklist for Structural Resilience • Building Code Checklist for Fire Safety • Building Code Checklist for Green Building • Building Code Checklist for Universal Accessibility Feature story: • Stronger Building Codes for a Safer, More Resilient Future 10:00- 10:10 Opening remarks (10 mins) • Niels Holm‑Nielsen, Practice Manager, Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery (GFDRR) • Juan Pablo Bonilla, Sector Manager, Climate Change and Sustainable Development Sector, Inter‑American Development Bank (IDB) 10:10-10:25 Insights from the new report: A Global Assessment of Building Codes – Presentation (15 mins) • Ana Campos Garcia, Lead Disaster Risk Management Specialist, GFDRR, World Bank • Keiko Sakoda, Senior Disaster Risk Management Specialist, GFDRR, World Bank 10:25-10:40 Resilience and Sustainability in Building Codes in Latin America & the Caribbean - Presentation (15 min) • Maria Alejandra Escovar, Disaster Risk Management Specialist, Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) 10:40- 11:05 Panel Discussions ( 25 min) • Paula Restrepo Cadavid, Lead Urban Specialist, World Bank • Francisca Pedrasa, President, Chilean Association of Structural Civil Engineers (AICE), Chile • Luis Enrique Aycardi Fonseca, Assistant Professor, Civil Engineering, Colombian School of Engineering Julio Garavito, Colombia Moderated by Zoe Elena Trohanis , Lead Disaster Risk Management Specialist, World Bank 11:05-11:20 Audience questions (15 min) Moderated by Zoe Elena Trohanis 11:20-11:25 Concluding Remarks (5 min) • Zoe Elena Trohanis, Lead Disaster Risk Management Specialist, World Bank Niels Holm‑Nielsen Practice Manager Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery (GFDRR) Head of GFDRR. A Danish national, Niels joined the Bank in 2006 as a Junior Professional Officer in the Middle East and North Africa Region. He has since held several positions in Disaster Risk Management in the Latin America and the Caribbean and Africa Regions, including most recently as Lead Disaster Risk Management Specialist and Global Lead for Resilience and Disaster Risk Management. He holds a M.Sc. in Political Science from the University of Aarhus, Denmark. Juan Pablo Bonilla Sector Manager Climate Change and Sustainable Development Sector Inter-American Development Bank Juan Pablo Bonilla is the Manager of the Interamerican Development Bank’s Climate Change and Sustainable Development Sector (CSD). Previously, he served as Chief of Staff to the Executive Vice President of the IDB. Dr. Bonilla has worked on environmental sustainability, climate change and energy for more than 20 years, leading the IDB's Sustainable Energy and Climate Change Initiative, a major strategic step for integrating climate change and sustainability as a priority for the Bank. Before joining the IDB, he worked as Senior Specialist at the World Bank, and was a member of the United Nation's CDM Executive Board. In Colombia, after serving as the Executive Director of a new think tank Fundesarrollo, and as National Environmental Manager of ANDI, Dr. Bonilla launched new initiatives such as the National Climate Change Policy and the National Biotechnology Policy as principal advisor to the country's Vice President. Dr. Bonilla served as Deputy Minister of Environment, and acting Minister of Environment, Housing and Territorial Development. Dr. Bonilla obtained a B.A. in Civil Engineering from the Universidad Javeriana in Bogotá, Colombia, and then received a M.Sc. in Engineering Management and Systems Engineering and a Ph.D. in Environmental and Energy Management from George Washington University. Ana Campos Garcia Lead Disaster Risk Management Specialist GFDRR, World Bank Ana Campos Garcia, Lead Disaster Risk Management Specialist at GFDRR at the World Bank, based in Washington D.C. In this role, she plays a strategic role in leading and supporting teams working across resilience and disaster risk management in relation to territorial development, urban and coastal resilience, institutional and policy strengthening, disaster risk financing, modernization of hydromet systems, and emergency response and recovery. She holds a Master’s degree in Earthquake Engineering and more than 30 years of applied operational and analytical experience on disaster risk management in East Africa and Latin America and the Caribbean both in high- and low-income country contexts, including FCV. Maria Alejandra Escovar Disaster Risk Management Specialist Inter-American Development Bank (IDB María Alejandra works as a Disaster Risk Management Specialist at IDB. She works with teams to identify and address disaster and climate change risks throughout infrastructure project cycles. She is a civil and environmental engineer with experience in consulting for environmental projects and disaster risk management. She holds a Master's degree in Civil Engineering with a focus on Engineering and Environmental Management with an emphasis on research (Universidad de Los Andes, Colombia) and a Master's degree in Environment and Sustainable Development (University College London UCL). Paula Restrepo Cadavid Lead Urban Specialist World Bank Paula Restrepo Cadavid is the Lead Urban specialist for Latin America and the Caribbean in the Urban, Resilience and Land Management Global Practice of the World Bank. She has worked in areas related to urban economics, territorial development, resilient urban infrastructure, urban renewal, neighborhood upgrading and housing. She has experience in more than 35 countries, leading investment projects and policy dialogue in Latin America and the Caribbean, Eastern Europe, and Central Asia. She has a PhD in urban economics from the Ecole de Mines de Paris, a master’s in environmental and development economics from the Ecole Polytechnique and is an Environmental Engineer from the School of Engineering of Antioquia. Francisca Pedrasa President Chilean Association of Structural Civil Engineers (AICE), Chile Francisca Andrea Pedrasa Pizarro is a civil engineer specializing in structural and seismic engineering, with over 20 years of experience in project management and design for hospital, residential, and commercial buildings across Chile, Perú, and other South American countries. She graduated with highest honors from the University of Chile in 2005 and is a founding partner and director at Pedrasa Ingeniería Estructural SpA. Francisca has led structural projects in Chile and Perú and contributed to regulatory studies for the IDB and World Bank. She also served as Project Manager for an Inter-American Development Bank initiative at the Chilean Institute of Construction. Active in the professional community, she is Past President and current Director of AICE Chile, a member of ACHISINA, and serves on the Vulnerable Housing Committee for the Latin American Seismic Model Code. She holds professional licenses in Chile and Perú. Luis Enrique Aycardi Fonseca Assistant Professor, Civil Engineering Colombian School of Engineering Julio Garavito, Colombia - TBC Over 30 years of experience in structural engineering consulting. He has been a university professor at several universities in Colombia. He worked for over 30 years at PCA (Proyectistas Civiles Asociados) in Bogotá and is currently the Technical Manager of AYCARDI ESTRUCTURAL, a leading structural consulting firm in Colombia. He has served on several occasions as a member of the Board of Directors of professional associations such as ACIES (Colombian Association of Structural Engineering), ACI (American Concrete Institute Colombian Section), and AIS - Colombian Association of Seismic Engineering, of which he was president from 2009 to 2013. His primary interests include seismic engineering and design, reinforced concrete, and structural masonry. Keiko Sakoda Senior Disaster Risk Management Specialist GFDRR, World Bank Keiko Sakoda is a Senior Disaster Risk Management (DRM) Specialist at the World Bank’s Global Unit for Climate and Disaster Risk Management. She leads a global initiative "Building Regulation for Resilience", which aims to foster resilient, green and inclusive built environments globally through regulatory and institutional reforms, alongside capacity building efforts. Before assuming current role, Keiko contributed to the DRM and Urban portfolio in South Asia region, bringing solid operational expertise in post-disaster and post-conflict reconstruction, disaster preparedness, climate change adaptation, and urban development. Prior to joining the World Bank, Keiko worked with UNHCR in South Sudan, UNDP and UN-Habitat in Indonesia, and JICA in Mongolia, where she gained diverse field experiences in climate and disaster resilience. Ms. Sakoda holds a Master's degree in Architectural Engineering from Kyoto Institute of Technology in Japan. Event Details Date: July 09, 2025 Time: 10:00 AM - 11:30 AM ET Location: World Bank HQ Bldg, MC 8-140 Hybrid: Register to participate online For in-person registration, please contact Liliana Serrano Pajaro lserranopajaro@worldbank.org Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×