Transportation Data - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Back to climate , updates Transportation Data November 14, 2023 The U.S. transportation system includes the roads, railways, bridges, waterways, pipelines, and ports that facilitate the production and distribution of goods and services throughout the country. The projected increase in extreme events such as extreme heat, drought and flooding due to sea-level rise and heavy precipitation will result in significant damages and disruptions to the country’s transportation system. Current research is revealing the potential vulnerabilities that exist within the transportation sector. This information can help guide individuals, businesses, and municipalities on the risk factors and potential hazards to consider when developing adaptive strategies to increase the resilience of their transportation systems. Here you will find resources related to the impacts of climate change on transportation assets, transportation operations, and the transportation system. You may access the framing questions used to select the data and content available for this theme. Use the Data.gov data search portal to locate all Transportation datasets . For more information, explore the Climate Resilience Toolkit topic area for Transportation . About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov