World Bank Approves New Project to Improve Learning, Health, and Social Protection for Children in Mozambique Who We Are News This page in: English Português This page in: English Português PRESS RELEASE June 20, 2025 World Bank Approves New Project to Improve Learning, Health, and Social Protection for Children in Mozambique Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Washington, June 20, 2025 —The World Bank has approved the Mozambique Human Development Integrated Project (INTEGRA), an initiative aimed at improving education outcomes and delivering integrated health and social services to school-age children and their families in the most vulnerable districts of Mozambique. Using schools as hubs for service delivery, INTEGRA's innovative approach will support the government in providing better learning conditions, school meals, basic healthcare, and social protection. It will also help upgrade school infrastructure to be climate-resilient, digitally connected, and safe—especially for girls. “ INTEGRA strengthens the government’s ability to deliver essential services where they are needed most ,” said Luc Lecuit , World Bank Acting Division Director in Mozambique . “ By investing in local systems and frontline capacity, the project helps ensure that education, health, and social protection services reach children and families in a coordinated, sustainable way. ” The project forms part of the regional Advancing Innovative Methods to Promote Learning (AIM4Learning) initiative, which supports countries in Eastern and Southern Africa in expanding equitable access to basic education and enhancing learning outcomes. This first phase is focused in 20 districts and is funded through a $100 million grant from the International Development Association* (IDA). Spanning five years, through 2030, INTEGRA will be rolled out in phases to ensure strong cross-sector coordination and lasting impact at the local level. “INTEGRA addresses the root causes of low learning outcomes by supporting important interventions to improve education quality with an integrated, multisectoral approach that includes health, nutrition, and social protection services ,” said Andre Loureiro, Senior Economist and Task Team Leader . “ Through this project, the government is strengthening local systems and using schools as service hubs to deliver results in human development .” The project aligns with Mozambique’s Education Sector Plan (2020-2029) and builds on successful initiatives like Improving Learning and Empowering Girls in Mozambique and the Harnessing the Demographic Dividend Project , while complementing ongoing investments in health, social protection, and digital infrastructure. *The World Bank’s International Development Association (IDA), established in 1960, helps the world’s poorest countries by providing grants and low to zero-interest loans for projects and programs that boost economic growth, reduce poverty, and improve poor people’s lives. IDA is one of the largest sources of assistance for the world’s 74 poorest countries, 39 of which are in Africa. Resources from IDA bring positive change to the 1.3 billion people who live in IDA countries. Since 1960, IDA has provided $496 billion to 114 countries. Annual commitments have increased steadily and averaged about $34.7 billion over the last three years (FY20-FY22), with about 70% going to Africa. Contacts: In Mozambique : Leonor Costa Neves , lcostaneves@worldbank.org In Washington : Daniella van Leggelo-Padilla, dvanleggelo@worldbank.org PRESS RELEASE NO: 2025/085/AFE RELATED World Bank in Mozambique Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×