Remarks of Kseniya Lvovsky, World BAnk Country Manager at the 'Albanian Education in the Digital Era Conference' --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News Speeches & Transcripts Remarks of Kseniya Lvovsky, World BAnk Country Manager at the 'Albanian Education in the Digital Era Conference' April 3, 2012 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Kseniya Lvovsky, World Bank Country Manager Albania Transcript I am honored to participate at the opening of today’s conference that discusses critical issues for achieving high quality education and making young generation of Albanians competitive and successful. Today, globalization and the information revolution have increased the demands for a technologically skilled work force. ICT’s has helped countries to leapfrog in the development process, by moving directly to a globally-connected, information-driven, knowledge-based society. To do so, nations must put a high priority to building the capacity to effectively use these technologies in education. That is why the World Bank is playing an important role in assisting countries in taking advantage of the opportunities in information and communications technologies to contribute to education goals. the Education Excellence and Equity Project (EEE-P) financed by the Government of Albania in partnership with the World Bank, Council of Europe Development Bank and the European Investment Bank has helped to supply computers and connectivity, build school computer labs, enable instruction in computer literacy, and strengthened transparency and efficiency of the education system and institutions . By helping to narrow the digital divide in Albania, this investment will help Albanian children to compete in the global labor market of tomorrow. I am very pleased that Government of Albania implementing a Cross-Sectoral Strategy for Information Society, to build a knowledge based society where everybody benefit from information and communication technology and where public administration is more efficient and transparent. We encourage the MoES to pursue the agenda of the e-learning by not only putting in the basic infrastructure and software in place, but by continuously improving the capacity of its educators to deliver computer literacy, to apply ICT in their instructional methods, and to promote develop skills in critical thinking, information evaluation, and collaboration in their graduates. This challenge does not only involve the public administration and its donors, but requires a partnership with the private sector to deliver first rate products and services that the Albanian children deserve. We at the World Bank have noted the growing capabilities in the local private sector in the IT field. We encourage all players - public and private - to ensure fair competition for delivering your children and grandchildren best services and products at affordable price, and to dutifully meet all contractual obligations and commitments. Finally, I would also like to encourage the Ministry of Education and Science to, itself, make good use of these new technologies such as EMIS, databases of education outcomes, to strengthen the management of the sector. I wish you success in advancing this ambitious agenda for the digital age and to help Albania children meet the challenges of the future, and for a more efficient and transparent public sector. Albania Europe and Central Asia Education Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.