Students in Indonesia Know That For Better Basic Services, Their Country Needs More Revenue --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Students in Indonesia Know That For Better Basic Services, Their Country Needs More Revenue June 6, 2017 This page in: English Bahasa Indonesia Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> STORY HIGHLIGHTS An essay competition for university students is helping to raise awareness about public financial management among Indonesia’s youth. Tax and revenue collection were the topics most discussed in the essays Minister of Finance Sri Mulyani Indrawati hopes that students can remain interested in these issues and contribute to the appropriate management of public finances. Jakarta, Indonesia, June 6, 2017 – “I want my future children to have better health and education services,” says Erikson Wijaya, a student from South Sulawesi who is in his final year at the Jenderal Soedirman University in Purwokerto, Central Java. “And good public financial management can help.” Erikson was one of the runners-up in a student essay competition about public financial management jointly organized by the World Bank and the University of Indonesia. Over 70 senior undergraduate students submitted essays for the competition. “The competition was an opportunity to share my ideas about an important issue that I like, which is taxes,” said Erikson on why he participated in the competition. “And public finance is important because it also affects my life.” The essays submitted demonstrate that Indonesia’s current and future leaders understand the importance of raising more revenue. All of the top three essays explored the question of how Indonesia can raise more government revenue equitably and efficiently to deliver more and better basic services. Other essays focused on public service delivery, and relationships between local governments and citizens. Fellow runner-up, Faisal Lutfi from the University of Jember, wrote his essay on how small and medium enterprises (SMEs) can contribute to Indonesia’s development by paying taxes. “I know SMEs can contribute more because I own one of them. I pay my university tuition with the money I make in my small business selling moon cakes,” said Lutfi proudly. Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati presented the award to the winner of the competition. “I feel that this kind of knowledge exchange especially by students is very important for them because they should know not only the budget as a fiscal instrument, but most importantly, this is money that belongs to the people of Indonesia,” said Minister Indrawati. First prize winner, Adinda Rizky Herdianti from the University of Indonesia, wrote about taxes using a behavioral approach. “Public financial management affects the lives of so many people, yet it is often discussed in ways that are difficult for the general public to understand. A behavioral economics approach can help public management be better related to the public,” said Adinda, explaining the rationale for her essay. " I feel that this kind of knowledge exchange especially by students is very important for them because they should know not only the budget as a fiscal instrument, but most importantly, this is money that belongs to the people of Indonesia " Sri Mulyani Indrawati Minister of Finance Minister Indrawati was joined by the World Bank Country Director for Indonesia, Rodrigo A. Chaves; Ambassador of Canada to Indonesia, Peter MacArthur; Ambassador of the European Union to Indonesia and Brunei Darussalam, Vincent Guérend; Ambassador of Switzerland to Indonesia, Yvonne Baumann; and Muhammad Anis, Rector of the University of Indonesia. Each of whom presented awards to the two runners-up, and three honorable mentions who traveled from across the archipelago from East Nusa Tenggara, Kalimantan, Sumatra and East Java to Jakarta to attend the award ceremony hosted by the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance also sees sound public financial management as a foundation of good governance that ultimately supports the welfare of Indonesians. The Minister hopes that students can remain interested and help oversee the management of public finances by questioning why collecting revenues is important, and how best to manage public spending. The competition is part of the Public Financial Management Multi-Donor Trust Fund program supported by the Government of Canada, the European Union, and the Government of Switzerland. The program has sustained a longstanding partnership with the Ministry of Finance to improve public financial management in Indonesia. Indonesia East Asia Pacific RELATED WORLD BANK Download Essay Document (.pdf Bahasa) Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.