European Commission, United Nations, World Bank Strengthen Partnership to Tackle Pressing Global Challenges Who We Are News Statement October 25, 2023 European Commission, United Nations, World Bank Strengthen Partnership to Tackle Pressing Global Challenges Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina BRUSSELS, October 25, 2023 —As people across the world face intertwined crises and pressing development challenges, United Nations Deputy Secretary-General Amina Mohammed, European Commissioner for International Partnerships Jutta Urpilainen, and World Bank Managing Director Anna Bjerde met today to renew and strengthen their partnership and discuss areas of joint operational collaboration. The topics discussed included: Strengthening cooperation in the context of conflict and natural disasters; Delivering essential services in places such as Afghanistan and the Sahel; and Furthering operational engagements in support of gender equality. “We are off-track on the SDGs and the goals cannot be met without resolving the world’s most complex crises, including climate change, inequalities, conflicts, and insecurity. Meeting these challenges requires responding to country priorities by bringing together different expertise and pulling in the same direction to achieve genuine transformation and meet our commitment to leaving no one behind. That is what our partnership with the EU and the World Bank can and must deliver, " said Amina Mohammed, UN Deputy Secretary-General. “It was my pleasure to welcome Deputy-Secretary General Amina Mohammed and Managing Director Anna Bjerde to the first-ever Global Gateway Forum in Brussels and participate in this UN-WB-EU troika meeting, ” said Jutta Urpilainen, EU Commissioner for International Partnerships. “ Today’s challenges require common responses. Together, we can put a stop to backsliding in gender equality and enhance cooperation where support is needed most.” “Crises and shocks are the new normal and we need to respond quickly and more effectively. Ending poverty on a livable planet requires us to re-energize and deepen our partnerships to make a difference in the lives of people,” said Anna Bjerde, World Bank Managing Director of Operations . “ I am excited to be joining forces with the United Nations and the European Commission so we can leverage the strengths of each institution to deliver faster and better results for the most vulnerable.” From left to right: Anna Bjerde, World Bank Managing Director of Operations, Jutta Urpilainen, EU Commissioner for International Partnerships, and Amina Mohammed, UN Deputy Secretary-General. Contact: In Washington: Patricia da Camara, pdacamara@worldbankgroup.org, +1 202-473-4019 Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×