World Bank and Clean Technology Fund Support Türkiye’s Renewable Energy Goals with Power Transmission Project Who We Are News This page in: English Türkçe This page in: English Türkçe PRESS RELEASE August 4, 2025 World Bank and Clean Technology Fund Support Türkiye’s Renewable Energy Goals with Power Transmission Project Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina WASHINGTON, August 4, 2025 —The World Bank has approved today a package of financing for the Türkiye - Transforming Power Transmission System Project (TPTS), including a EUR 625 million (US$ 707.9 million equivalent) loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), a EUR 32.798 million (US$ 38 million equivalent) loan from the Clean Technology Fund (CTF), and a US$ 2 million CTF grant. This major project aims to enable the integration of increased renewable energy capacity into Türkiye’s national power transmission grid, supporting the country’s clean energy transition and climate resilience goals. This project, which marks Phase 7 of the broader Renewable Energy Scale-Up in Europe and Central Asia (ECARES) Program , will help Türkiye modernize and expand its power transmission infrastructure to accommodate large-scale solar and wind generation. It directly supports Türkiye’s Energy Transition – Renewable Energy 2035 (RE 2035) strategy, which targets 120 GW of installed wind and solar capacity by 2035, aligning with the Government’s net-zero emissions target by 2053. “Türkiye has set one of the world’s most ambitious renewable energy targets and at the World Bank we are proud of supporting it. By modernizing the transmission network and scaling up renewables, the country is enhancing its energy security, reducing fossil fuel import dependency, improving its competitiveness, and developing new industries with the potential to create a large number of skilled jobs , ” said Humberto Lopez, World Bank Country Director for Türkiye . “ This project will help unlock private investment and support Türkiye’s vision of a modern and competitive energy sector .” The project focuses on three strategic components: Upgrading Transmission Infrastructure: Financing the construction of new high-voltage substations, modernizing existing ones, and expanding transmission lines and underground cables to directly enable 1.7 GW of renewable energy and improve grid reliability. Digitalizing the Power Grid: Upgrading Türkiye’s Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA)/Energy Management System (EMS) and introducing advanced digital technologies to manage the growing share of variable renewable energy. Technical Assistance for Innovation: Supporting Türkiye’s first High-Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) corridors and building the institutional capacity of Türkiye Electricity Transmission Corporation (TEİAŞ), the project’s implementing agency. “ This project is not just about building infrastructure; it is about enabling Türkiye’s power grid to become greener, resilient and more digital. By supporting TEİAŞ with both investments and technical assistance, we are helping unlock Türkiye’s renewable energy potential while enhancing the reliability of electricity supply for businesses and households ,” said Yeşim Akcollu , the World Bank Task Team Leader for the project . Aligned with Türkiye’s 12 th National Energy Plan and climate commitments, the project is expected to contribute to significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and support the creation of thousands of jobs across Türkiye’s renewable energy value chains. The World Bank and Clean Technology Fund remain committed to supporting Türkiye’s clean energy transition and sustainable development agenda. The ECARES Program (Renewable Energy Scale-Up in Europe and Central Asia) is a World Bank-led multiphase programmatic approach (MPA) that supports countries across the Europe and Central Asia region to accelerate their renewable energy deployment through policy reforms, infrastructure investments, and institutional strengthening. The program aims to enhance energy security, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and mobilize private sector participation in the clean energy transition. PRESS RELEASE NO: 2026/ECA/012 Contacts In Ankara: Tunya Celasin +90-312-4598343 tcelasin@worldbank.org In Washington: Nina Vucenik nvucenik@worldbankgroup.org RELATED World Bank in Türkiye Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×