Event | 2025 Consumer Protection Contest Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events 2025 Consumer Protection Contest Share CONTEST DETAILS HOW TO APPLY KEY DATES PAST EVENTS The International Consumer Protection and Enforcement Network (ICPEN) and the World Bank are pleased to announce the launch of the 2025 Consumer Protection Contest. This contest aims to showcase good implementation, enforcement, and compliance practices regarding consumer protection, as drivers to ensure that consumers are empowered with accurate information and are protected from unfair and deceptive practices. Given the growth of markets globally, it has become increasingly crucial to strengthen regulations and institutions that safeguard consumer rights and promote a fair marketplace. This contest complements the work done under the Competition Advocacy contest that the World Bank has been running together with the International Competition Network for the last ten years. We are looking for success stories from consumer protection authorities (Authorities) that demonstrate the tangible results of consumer protection work under three themes: Theme 1 - Case Management Excellence. Effective management of consumer complaints and investigations is essential for Consumer Protection Authorities. We invite submissions from Authorities that have developed and implemented successful tools and processes to enhance case management. Whether utilizing advanced digital systems or traditional methods, Authorities are encouraged to share their experiences in tracking investigations and outcomes, streamlining complaint intake and evidence gathering, and innovating internal processes to improve efficiency and accuracy. Successful initiatives should demonstrate improved consumer satisfaction through timely and effective resolution of complaints, regardless of the technological means employed. Theme 2 - Effective Communication Strategies. Raising awareness among consumers and businesses about cases and enforcement actions is a key responsibility of Consumer Protection Authorities. We seek examples of Authorities that have excelled in developing communication strategies to effectively inform consumers about ongoing cases and engage with businesses to ensure compliance and awareness of legal obligations. Authorities are invited to highlight their use of various communication channels, whether digital platforms, traditional media, or community outreach, to reach a broader audience. These initiatives should lead to increased public awareness and compliance, fostering a more informed consumer base and responsible business practices. This category is not about consumer education, but rather about communication to foster compliance about the Authorities activities and enforcement. Theme 3 - Innovative Market Research Initiatives. Conducting thorough market research to understand current business practices and emerging trends is vital for Consumer Protection Authorities. We are looking for initiatives where Authorities have implemented research strategies that explore new technologies, business practices, and market conditions. Authorities should share their experiences with analyzing consumer behavior and market dynamics, whether through digital tools or conventional methods, and collaborating with industry experts and stakeholders to gain insights into the consumer marketplace. These efforts should enhance the ability to anticipate and address consumer protection challenges in a rapidly evolving market, accommodating both digital and non-digital approaches. ICPEN members, partners, and observers are welcome to apply. Entities that are not an ICPEN member, partner or observer can apply jointly with one in order to qualify. A list of all ICPEN members, partners and observers is available here ( https://icpen.org/who-we-are ). Joint submissions from ICPEN members and other government bodies, sector regulators or non-governmental organizations are welcome. >>> APPLY NOW <<< In order to participate, candidates must complete the online survey. Key information required to apply includes: 1. A summary of the consumer protection initiative. Please include information covering (i) relevance of the intervention; (ii) the issue tackled by the initiative, (iii) the solution proposed/implemented, and (iv) impact when available. (150 words) 2. The consumer issue under assessment (150 words) 3. The strategy used to address the issue. It can include, for instance, communication strategy, stakeholders involved, resources allocated, evidence building. (150 words) 4. If applicable, any collaboration with other agencies/organizations and stakeholders. (150 words) 5. The results of the initiative. For example: (i) recommendations were implemented by public bodies, (ii) opinions were published or disseminated, or (iii) other changes generated by the initiative. (150 words) 6. If applicable, information on whether the initiative is inspired by other initiatives (i) in other jurisdictions or (ii) in your jurisdiction. Please provide brief information on those other initiatives if applicable. 7. How do you assess the impact, and what was the impact of your initiative? (150 words) 8. Lessons learned with the initiative. (150 words) >>> APPLY NOW <<< The online survey is the only valid application method . Applications through email messages or that fail to provide the required information in compliance with indicated character limits and blind review standards will not be considered. Please contact Sofia Martinez with any questions at smartinezamondar@worldbank.org Submissions open: May 28 th - June 27 th , 2025 Location: Online Deadline for submissions: June 27 th , 2025 (11h59 pm, Washington D.C. time). Location: Online Award ceremony, September 26 th , 2025 Location: Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic 2024 Consumer Protection Contest The deadline for submissions is June 27, 2025 (11h59 pm, Washington D.C. time) Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×