Good Governance Enhances Budget Oversight --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Good Governance Enhances Budget Oversight March 20, 2013 This page in: English ខ្មែរ Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Parliamentarians and government officials from Cambodia, Vietnam, and Laos review progress made so far. Photo: Chhor Sokunthea/World Bank Phnom Penh, March 20, 2013 —Budget oversight through good governance is important because it makes governments work for the people, the World Bank emphasized at a joint workshop for parliamentarians and government officials from Cambodia, Laos, and Vietnam on March 4, 2013. Alassane Sow, country manager of the World Bank in Cambodia , explained that governance is about the process of decision-making. It’s the process by which decisions are implemented so government can deliver better services to the people. “Building a system of budget oversight requires budget transparency. It also needs the involvement of all actors,” he said. “A full disclosure of all relevant fiscal information, in a timely and systematic manner, is critical. This will promote effective oversight by formal government institutions as well as informal networks and actors that have a key stake in the outcomes of the national budget,” Cheam Yeap, the chairman of the Commission on Economy, Finance, Banking and State Audit for Cambodia, said that governments are responsible for parliamentary oversight. “The budget is at the heart of efforts to improve governance and accountability in all countries. It is crucial in reducing poverty. The parliament can make an important contribution by expanding its oversight role throughout the budget cycle,” he said. World Bank Senior Public Sector Management Specialist Leah April shared good practices for transparency. She said that budget transparency requires clear roles and responsibilities, an open budget process, and reporting. The Finance Ministry should also actively encourage citizens and government organizations to understand the budget process. “There are many benefits if the government increases transparency. There is a growing international consensus and compelling evidence demonstrating that fiscal transparency is directly linked to improved social outcomes and greater economic stability,” she said. Participants looked at the progress of the parliaments of Cambodia, Laos, and Vietnam. They also discussed the challenges involved in overseeing the national budget. They then developed future action plans for each country based on lessons learned from their experience. The three-day workshop was supported by the World Bank, Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit , Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency , and the European Union . Representatives of the National Assembly Committees on Finance and Budget, Supreme Audit Institutions, and Economy and Finance Ministries from the three countries attended the workshop. RELATED WORLD BANK World Bank in Cambodia Cambodia East Asia Pacific Lao PDR Viet Nam Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.