Event | 2nd Conference on Institutions and Prosperity: Supporting Firms and Workers | January 28 - 29, 2026 Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events 2nd Conference on Institutions and Prosperity ─ Supporting Firms and Workers Share About the Conferenece Organizing Committee The 2nd Conference on Institutions and Prosperity ─ Supporting Firms and Workers will feature academics, development organizations and policymakers to share research findings, best practices, and innovative approaches to improve public institutions. It will be organized around the following core questions: Labor demand: How does institutional capacity (and lack thereof) affect private sector growth and productivity? Labor supply : What institutions support effective skills development and workforce participation, and what are the capacity constraints that keep them from achieving their goals? Enabling the labor market as a whole: What are the implications for firms and workers when the institutions specifically designed to address jobs and labor issues have low capacity? The keynote speaker will be Ufuk Akcigit , Arnold C. Harberger Professor of Economics at the University of Chicago. The conference will take place in person in Washington, DC on January 28-29, 2026 , with streaming for non-presenting attendees. Presenters are expected to join in person. The organizers will arrange travel and accommodation for invited presenters. Call for Papers: The call for papers is now closed. Notification of acceptance will be given by Friday December 12, 2025 at the latest. Please note that in-person presentation of the accepted papers is strongly preferred. Details will be circulated after notification of acceptance. The best paper submission will be selected for an award, to be given at the end of the conference. Also See: Inaugural World Bank Conference on Public Institutions for Development ─ Enabling the Private Sector Scientific and Organizing Committee: Pinyi Chen, Raian Divanbeigi, David Francis, Zahid Hasnain, Galileu Kim, Tanu Kumar, Viktoriia Poltoratskaia, Ryan Rafaty, Rita Ramalho, Francesca Recanatini, Manuel Ramos-Maqueda, Dan Rogger Secretariat of the Conference: Megan Breece, Woudassie Bezabeh Alamrew Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×