Event | Haiti – Looking Forward, Creating Solutions Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Haiti – Looking Forward, Creating Solutions Share OVERVIEW AGENDA SPEAKERS Haiti stands at a crossroads, facing profound challenges that threaten its stability and future. However, a coordinated, multi-sectoral approach focusing on governance reform, security stabilization, economic recovery, and infrastructure rebuilding can pave the way for long-term development. By prioritizing these, Haiti can transition from crisis to stability and build a future of opportunity and dignity for its people. The country’s fragile political landscape, deteriorating security, economic contraction, and humanitarian crisis demand urgent and sustained interventions to break the cycle of fragility. This staging of the Ask World Bank Caribbean Webinar Series will review the pressing challenges Haiti faces, the negative impacts of continued inaction, and the proposed comprehensive solutions necessary for recovery and sustainable growth. FACEBOOK LIVE 10:00 a.m. Event Opening Anne-Lucie Lefebvre, World Bank Country Manager, Haiti 10:03 a.m. Welcome Remarks Lilia Burunciuc , World Bank Director for the Caribbean Ronke-Amoni Ogunsulire , IFC Caribbean Manager 10:09 a.m. Introduction of Presenter Anne-Lucie Lefebvre , moderator 10:12 a.m. Presentation: Haiti – Looking Forward, Creating Solutions Mounir Mahmalat , World Bank Senior Operations Officer/FCV Coordinator 10:25 a.m. Introduction of Panelists Ulrika Richardson , UN Resident Coordinator, Haiti Bruce Golding, CARICOM Eminent Persons Group Ivy Kuperberg , IFC Country Officer, Haiti 10:30 a.m. Panel Discussion Audience questions invited. 11:10 a.m. Event Closing Anne-Lucie Lefebvre , moderator Anne-Lucie Lefebvre Country Manager for Haiti·World Bank Group Anne-Lucie Lefebvre is the World Bank’s Country Manager for Haiti, overseeing the Bank’s engagement in the country as part of the Latin America and Caribbean region. A Canadian national with a background in political science, Ms. Lefebvre joined the World Bank in 2009 as a Senior Public Sector Specialist in the Africa VPU, based in Washington, D.C., following a career with the Government of Canada and short-term experiences with the World Food Program (WFP) and international NGOs. She has since held Senior Public Sector Specialist roles in various countries, including Mozambique, Madagascar, and Morocco. Her most recent assignment was as the World Bank Resident Representative for Guinea-Bissau in West Africa. Lilia Burunciuc Country Director for Caribbean Countries·World Bank Group Lilia Burunciuc is the World Bank’s Country Director for the Caribbean countries, responsible for maintaining partnerships with governments to address their development challenges. Since joining the World Bank in 1996, she has held a range of leadership roles, including Director for Central Asia; Manager in Operations Policy and Country Services; Country Manager for Macedonia; Country Program Coordinator for Southern Africa and Central Asia; and Senior Country Officer for Ukraine and Belarus. She has extensive experience in leading policy dialogues with governments on various development issues. Prior to joining the World Bank, Ms. Burunciuc served as Deputy Governor of the National Bank of Moldova. She holds a Master’s degree in Public Administration from George Washington University (USA) and a Master’s-level degree in Economics, Management, and Planning from the Technical University of Moldova. The Hon. Bruce Golding Former Prime Minister of Jamaica, Member of the CARICOM Eminent Persons Group·CARICOM Eminent Persons Group The Hon. Bruce Golding, former Prime Minister of Jamaica, is a member of the Eminent Persons Group (EPG) appointed by CARICOM Heads of Government to facilitate dialogue between the Government of Haiti and Haitian stakeholders. The three-member EPG also includes Former Prime Minister of The Bahamas, The Rt. Hon. Perry Christie, and Former Prime Minister of Saint Lucia, Dr. the Hon. Kenny D. Anthony. The Group provides Good Offices support in key areas such as security, governance, the electoral process, and long-term development planning, while also engaging with international partners. A Technical Team of experts from CARICOM Member States, the CARICOM Secretariat, and regional agencies supports the Group’s efforts. Ulrika Richardson Resident Coordinator, United Nations Integrated Office in Haiti (BINUH)·United Nations Ulrika Richardson is the Resident Coordinator in Haiti. A Swedish national, she has over 30 years of experience in international cooperation, primarily with the United Nations, working across West and Central Africa, the Caribbean, the Western Balkans, and Southeast Europe. She has extensive expertise in development, conflict, post-conflict, and humanitarian settings, with a strong focus on human rights, gender advocacy, and the challenges of Small Island Developing States. Prior to her current role, Ms. Richardson served as UN Resident Coordinator in Kosovo and Cabo Verde, where she also represented UNDP, UNICEF, and UNFPA. She previously held leadership positions with UNDP in Gabon, Turkey, and Cuba and worked with the African Development Bank in Côte d’Ivoire. She began her UN career in 1995 as a United Nations Volunteer. Ms. Richardson holds a Master’s in International Development and Development Economics from the University of Gothenburg and a Bachelor's in Social Psychology Ronke-Amoni Ogunsulire Caribbean Manager·International Finance Corporation (IFC) Ronke-Amoni Ogunsulire is the IFC’s Caribbean Manager. Prior to this role, she served as Regional Manager for the Ghana Sub-region, overseeing operations in Benin, Burkina Faso, Ghana, Niger, and Togo. She has also worked as an Adviser to the CEO of IFC and as a Principal Investment Officer in the Africa Region. Ms. Ogunsulire holds an MBA in Finance and a Master's in Environmental Studies from Yale University. She also earned bachelor's degrees in Chemical Engineering and Engineering Sciences from Dartmouth College. Ivy Kuperberg Country Officer for Haiti·International Finance Corporation (IFC) Ivy Kuperberg is the Country Officer for Haiti at the International Finance Corporation (IFC), where she focuses on sourcing key investments in renewable energy, agriculture, and healthcare, as well as supporting advisory work in horticulture and digital financial services. Before joining IFC, she worked on impact investments and upstream initiatives in West and Central Africa and promoted partnerships and foreign direct investment in Latin America and the Caribbean. Ms. Kuperberg holds a postgraduate degree in International Relations from Harvard University and an undergraduate degree in History from Rice University. Mounir Mahmalat Country Coordinator: Fragility, Conflict & Violence Practice Group·World Bank Group Mounir Mahmalat is the Country Coordinator for the Fragility, Conflict, and Violence Practice Group at the World Bank. His work and research focus on political economy issues, particularly governance, conflict, and development. Prior to joining the World Bank, he held positions at the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (UN ESCWA) and various think tanks. He has also served as a research fellow at Harvard University and the American University of Beirut. Dr. Mahmalat holds degrees in music and engineering, as well as a PhD in political economy from Dublin City University. REGISTER NOW Event Details Date: March 26, 2025 Time: 02:01 PM - 02:03 PM ET Location: Zoom Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×