Design & Implementation: Direct Financing and Contracting --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Understanding Poverty Topics Community-Driven Development BRIEF Design & Implementation: Direct Financing and Contracting June 6, 2013 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Increasingly, communities are responsible for service planning, providing financing and other contributions, and ultimately, service management. There is growing interest in approaches that delegate financial management and procurement responsibilities to the communities themselves, giving the communities full control over investment resources and project implementation. Direct financing to communities Direct financing to communities is a process by which a funding agency, such as a social fund, agency, or local government, provides funds directly to communities responsible for managing the implementation of subprojects. A community includes groups of individuals living in close proximity to each other able to identify a need and come together to access project funds. The community is usually represented by some form of community-based organization or local project committee that enters into a contract with the funding agency. There is a range of institutional options to provide funding to community-based organizations. Community-driven development (CDD) interventions focus on the partnership between the funding agency and the community. In this model, communities receive funds directly form the funding agency (central government, elected local government, or NGO), procure materials, hire contractors and consultants/technical experts, employ skilled and unskilled labor, and ultimately manage the overall implementation of the subproject. The role of the funding agency changes significantly when the communities are responsible for implementing subprojects themselves; it becomes a facilitator providing not just funds but also technical support to the community throughout the project cycle. Community contracting Community contracting has been defined as procurement by or on behalf of a community. While there are many different models of community contracting, they all share certain key characteristics and goals. Community members are involved in identifying needs and selecting a subproject; participation is encouraged throughout the subproject cycle; and communities provide contributions in the form of labor, cash and/or materials to promote ownership and sustainability. The Bank's procurement procedures were originally designed for large investment projects rather than for projects financing many community-level subprojects. They have since evolved to include rules for small-scale projects that meet Bank audit requirements while retaining the flexibility required for demand-driven interventions (Small Works and Community Participation in Procurement; Procurement Guideline 3.15 Community Participation in Procurement). Financial Management CDD projects usually require specific procedures for financial management and disbursement that maximize accountability and transparency, and training on accounting and financial management procedures when necessary. RELATED Community-based Contracting: A Review of Stakeholder Experience Communities Taking the Lead - A Handbook on Direct Financing of Community Subprojects Money Matters: Designing Effective CDD Disbursement Mechanisms --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.