World Bank Reenters the Canadian Dollar Bond Market with a CAD 1.5 billion Benchmark Bond Who We Are News PRESS RELEASE August 21, 2025 World Bank Reenters the Canadian Dollar Bond Market with a CAD 1.5 billion Benchmark Bond Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina WASHINGTON, D.C. August 21, 2025 – The World Bank (International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, IBRD, Aaa/AAA) today priced a new 3-year CAD $1.5 billion Sustainable Development Bond that matures in September 2028. The 3-year benchmark transaction pays a semi-annual coupon of 2.90% p.a. and has an issue price of 99.946% and a final spread of 9.8 bps over the CAN 3.25% September 2028 reference bond, offering investors a yield of 2.919% (semi-annual). Joint lead managers for this transaction are BMO Capital Markets, CIBC, National Bank Financial and Scotiabank. “It has been a dynamic start to the new fiscal year for the World Bank, as we conclude successful transactions for the World Bank in two different currencies this week - USD and now in CAD,” said Jorge Familiar, Vice President and Treasurer, World Bank. “This benchmark attracted interest from a wide range of investors, reflecting robust demand for secure, liquid investments that also deliver positive impact.” Investor Distribution by Investor Type Investor Distribution by Region Banks/Bank Treasuries/Corporates 55% Americas 85% Central Banks/Official 23% Europe/Middle East/Africa 13% Asset Managers/Insurance/Pension Funds 22% Asia 2% Lead Manager Quotes: “We are proud to have been involved in World Bank’s first Canadian dollar transaction since January 2024. With interest over CAD 2.3 billion at closing, the order book is the largest on record for a CAD-denominated transaction – a testament to the enduring nature of World Bank’s deep relationships with its global investors. Congratulations to the World Bank team on an extremely successful return to the CAD market,” said Massimo Antonelli, Head of International SSA, BMO Capital Markets. “We are pleased to welcome back the World Bank to the Maple market with their successful 3-year offering. After more than a year’s absence, their return was met with exceptional investor demand, reaffirming the World Bank’s ability to re-open markets, and demonstrating how the World Bank’s ongoing commitment to impactful, sustainable development continues to strongly resonate with investors," said Priya Radha, Managing Director & Global Head, Government Solutions, CIBC Capital Markets. “ In the midst of the post-summer capital markets reopening in several currencies, the World Bank seized the opportunity to reopen the Canadian Maple market for the second half of the year with an outstanding Canadian dollar 1.5 billion 3-year benchmark bond. It is the largest CAD transaction year to date and shows the World Bank’s continued support for the Canadian market. National Bank Financial was proud to partner with the World Bank with this outstanding opportunity,” said Scott Graham, Managing Director and Head of U.S. Government and SSA Finance, National Bank Financial Inc. “Congratulations to the World Bank on a successful CAD 1.5 billion 3-year Sustainable Development Bond benchmark. This marks a truly impressive return to the CAD global bond market, commencing the World Bank’s 2025 Fiscal Year activity in this currency. This issuance garnered strong demand and broad participation from high caliber domestic and international investors. Scotiabank was pleased to be involved in such an important issuance," said Cesare Roselli, Global Head of SSA Origination at Scotiabank. Summary Terms: Issuer: World Bank (International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, IBRD) Issuer rating: Aaa/AAA (Moody’s/S&P) Amount: CAD 1,500,000,000 Settlement date: September 5, 2025 Maturity date: September 5, 2028 Issue price: 99.946% Issue yield: 2.919% semi-annually Coupon: 2.90% p.a., payable semi-annually Denomination: CAD 1,000 Listing: Luxembourg Stock Exchange ISIN: CA459056HW08 Clearing system: CDS, Clearstream, Euroclear Joint lead managers: BMO Capital Markets, CIBC, National Bank Financial Inc, and Scotiabank About the World Bank The World Bank (International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, IBRD), rated Aaa/AAA (Moody’s/S&P), is an international organization. Created in 1944, it is the original member of the World Bank Group and operates as a global development cooperative owned by 189 nations. The World Bank provides loans, guarantees, risk management products, and advisory services to middle-income and other creditworthy countries to end extreme poverty and promote shared prosperity on a livable planet. It also provides leadership to coordinate regional and global responses to development challenges. The World Bank has been issuing bonds in the international capital markets for over 75 years to fund programs and activities that achieve a positive impact. World Bank bonds are aligned with the Sustainability Bond Guidelines published by the International Capital Market Association. More information on the World Bank’s Sustainable Development bonds is available at www.worldbank.org/debtsecurities and in the World Bank’s Sustainable Development Bond Impact Report that describes how the World Bank engages with investors and raises awareness for specific development challenges. Disclaimers This press release is not an offer for sale of securities of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development ("IBRD"), also known in the capital markets as "World Bank". Any offering of World Bank securities will take place solely on the basis of the relevant offering documentation including, but not limited to, the prospectus, term sheet and/or final terms, as applicable, prepared by the World Bank or on behalf of the World Bank, and is subject to restrictions under the laws of several countries. World Bank securities may not be offered or sold except in compliance with all such laws. The World Bank Sustainable Development Bond Framework, the World Bank’s Sustainable Development Bond Impact Report, and the information set forth therein are not a part of, or incorporated by reference into, the offering documentation. Net proceeds of the securities described herein are not committed or earmarked for lending to, or financing of, any particular projects or programs. Payments on the securities described herein are not funded by any project or program. Contact Investor Relations and Sustainable Finance, World Bank Treasury, debtsecurities@worldbank.org RELATED World Bank Treasury Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×