Event | Workshop on the National Eco-Industrial Park Program Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Workshop on the National Eco-Industrial Park Program Share The number of eco-industrial parks (EIPs), a new category of industrial parks that seek to maximize competitiveness while promoting sustainability and resilience, has been growing rapidly across the World. Industrial parks have been used as drivers of industrial growth in more than 140 economies. EIPs represent a new category of parks that adopt measures to enhance their environmental, economic, park management, and social performance, and increasingly their resiliency to natural hazards. With global market trends incentivizing firms to adhere to environmental, social, and governance (ESG) standards, the number of EIPs is rapidly rising, particularly in non-OECD countries. According to the World Bank’s global survey of EIPs in 2021, at least 438 EIPs are currently in operation, with their numbers growing at an annual rate of 5.6 percent. The workshop organized by the World Bank Group and the Malaysian Ministry of Investment, Trade and Industry, aims to discuss the EIP experience in Malaysia and other countries. The objective is to identify stakeholders’ views regarding to development of a National EIP Program for Malaysia. Agenda Related Time Agenda 8.00 – 9.00 am Registration 9.00 – 9.15 am Welcoming remarks: (i) YBhg. Datuk Bahria Mohd Tamil Deputy Secretary General (Investment & Management) Ministry of Investment Trade and Industry (MITI) (ii) Ms. Judith Green World Bank Group (WBG) Country Manager for Malaysia 9.15 - 9.25 Group Photo 9.30 – 10.15 am Session 1: The National EIP Program as a Policy Tool for Malaysia · Dr. Dario Quaranta Senior Expert, WBG · Ms. Nah-yoon Shin Private Sector Development Specialist, WBG Q&A (20 minutes) Topics covered: (i) International EIP Framework. (ii) Determining National EIP Program Objective. (iii) Legal and Regulatory Gap Analysis Relative to the National EIP Program Requirements. 10.15 – 10.30 am Coffee break 10.30 – 11.30 am Session 2: Emerging EIP Policy Instruments in Malaysia · Mr. Riduan Abd Rahman Executive Director Malaysian Investment Development Authority (MIDA) · Ms. Isnazunita Ismail Senior Director, SIRIM Berhad · Mr. Rudyanto Azhar Head of Economics and Investment Iskandar Regional Development Authority (IRDA) Q&A (30 minutes) Topics covered: (i) Public sector experiences promoting EIP principles in industrial parks in Malaysia. (ii) National and international EIP policy drivers for Malaysia. (iii) Opportunities and challenges emerging from the design and implementation of EIP initiatives. 11.30 am – 12.30 pm Session 3: Policy Priorities for Malaysia - Interactive session · Dr. Mariana Vijil Senior Economist, WBG · Dr. Zenaida Hernandez Uriz Senior Private Sector Specialist, WBG Topics covered: Setting up a National EIP Program for Malaysia. Case study to determine: · objectives and targets · gap analysis of policy, legal and regulatory frameworks 12.30 – 1.45 pm Lunch break 1.45 – 3.15 pm Session 4: Specific EIP Solutions, Financing Models And Private Capital · Ms. Shahira Johan Senior Financial Sector Specialist, WBG · Mr. Subrata Barman Senior Operations Officer, WBG Q&A (20 minutes) · Ms. Claudine Francois Country Program Manager, IFC-ILO Better Work · Dr. Ly Duy Khiem Chief Sustainability Officer/Intelligent Operation Center Director, Becamex IDC Corporation Q&A (20 minutes) Topics covered: Specific EIP solutions for decarbonization, waste and wastewater management, improving working conditions and labor rights. 3.15 – 3.30 pm Session 5: Closing remarks · WBG Get more details on each of the sessions. Click the corresponding download link to view the presentation slides: Session 1: The National EIP Program as a Policy Tool for Malaysia ( Download ) Session 2: Emerging EIP Policy Instruments in Malaysia Advocating Eco-Industrial Park in Johor–Singapore Special Economic Zone ( Download ) Emerging EIP Policy Instruments in Malaysia ( Download ) Lesson Learned from the MYEIP Project (2020-2025) and Way Forward ( Download ) Session 4: Specific EIP Solutions, Financing Models And Private Capital Climate Finance ( Download ) Eco-Industrial Park Development with Private Sector Participation ( Download ) Social Sustainability for Industrial Competitiveness ( Download ) Pioneering Sustainable Industrial Innovation and Social Impact in Vietnam ( Download ) Overview The workshop organized by the Ministry of Investment, Trade and Innovation (MITI), with the support of the World Bank Group, aims to discuss the Eco-Industrial Park (EIP) experience in Malaysia and other countries. The objective is to identify stakeholders’ views regarding to development of a National EIP Program for Malaysia. Inputs from the workshop will be considered for the formulation of a white paper for Malaysia on the development of a National EIP Program. Event Details Date: June 03, 2025 Time: 09:00 AM - 03:30 PM ET Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×