Faith and Development Leaders’ Meeting --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News Speeches & Transcripts Faith and Development Leaders’ Meeting July 1, 2009 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Graeme Wheeler, Managing Director, The World Bank Accra, Ghana As Prepared for Delivery We are meeting at an extraordinary time. Three years ago, the developing world was experiencing its most rapid economic growth in four decades. We talked of the global transfer of skill-enhancing technologies, the powerful catalysts of trade, investment, and capital flows, and whether the developing economies were decoupling from the developed economies. Three crises later, things are dramatically different. 60 million people remain trapped in extreme poverty (measured as living on under US$1.25 a day ppp adjusted), as a result of the food and fuel crisis, and the effects of the global slowdown from the financial crisis are only just beginning to be felt in low income countries. Every 1% decline in the average GDP gross rate for the developing world thrusts an additional 20 million people into extreme poverty. For regions like Sub-Saharan Africa, with 54% of its population aged below 20, the impact can be devastating. Poverty numbers mask the true nature of poverty. Extreme poverty has the face of a woman and a child. It disguises the infant mortality, the hunger and malnutrition, the lack of access to health care and education, and it disguises the pain of social exclusion. It is a dangerous time. Governments in the developed world are absorbed with their domestic policy agendas. They have taken on new roles as investors and guarantors of last resort, and are running government balance sheet risks and exposures that were simply unimaginable. The poorest and most vulnerable on the planet are becoming politically and socially disenfranchised and disconnected from global society. Most of these people are born and die without leaving a legal record or official trace of their existence. They hunger for inclusion, to belong, to have opportunities and access to services and property rights, and to feel empowered. In our past conferences, we have talked about how the work of development organizations and faith-inspired institutions is linked. We share similar passions for social justice, good governance, and building hope for individuals and communities, with dignity and empowerment. Now is the time to strengthen the links between development organizations and faithinspired institutions. Our partnership is needed more than ever. Your institutions make a tremendous difference to people’s lives. In many African countries, you provide 30 to 70% of the health services, and in post-conflict countries, the majority of primary education services. You deliver innovation and results, and you speak courageously about ethical challenges, injustice, and failures in governance. You have enormous influence on family and individual’s beliefs, attitudes, and perceptions. You motivate and mobilize communities and influence decisions on education and health – decisions that have long term effects on personal development and opportunity. Your impact will become even more critical as official donors face domestic pressures to focus more of their spending on their own citizens. In the Bank, we are strengthening our work on faith and development to better support government partners and faith-inspired organizations. Though our funding is channeled to governments, we can support your institutions by: expanding the dialogue between governments, development partners, and faithinspired organizations. We are seeing this in the international health partnership where partners are emphasizing the value of civil society organizations and funding their engagement; sharing successful experiences of faith-inspired organizations in delivering social services, e.g. our work with the World Council of Religions for Peace in creating a directory of faith-inspired organizations in Central America, and our work with the Fe why ALEGRIA Jesuit Movements in Latin America to draw insights on the delivery of education services; supporting faith-inspired organizations through analytical work and capacity building, especially on monitoring and evaluation by using household surveys to measure the quality and cost of services; and giving a stronger voice to faith leaders as done in recent community development projects in Togo. We have a unique opportunity and responsibility to work together to protect the most vulnerable. Together, we need to advocate at local and global levels for better policies and for more resources to help governments strive to meet the millennium development goals. Over the next two days, we have a wonderful opportunity to share experiences and learn from each other. We need to value and respect our differences but, above all, we need to learn more about how we can build stronger partnerships to provide hope and opportunity for the poor. Romania Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.