Event | Ukraine: Virtual Market Sounding and Consultation Workshop Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Ukraine: Virtual Market Sounding and Consultation Workshop Share Overview Ukraine: Invitation to the Virtual Market Sounding and Consultation Workshop for Supply of Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) with Energy Management Systems (EMS) and Ancillary Equipment at Kyiv HPP/PSP, Kaniv, Kremenchuk and Seredniodniprovska HPPs PJSC “Ukrhydroenergo” (UHE) is pleased to invite interested firms to participate in the Virtual Market Sounding and Consultation Workshop dedicated to procurement of Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) with Energy Management Systems (EMS) and Ancillary Equipment at Kyiv Hydropower/Pumped Storage Power Plant (HPP/PSP), Kaniv, Kremenchuk and Seredniodniprovska Hydropower Plants, including related services (design, assembly, commissioning and training of UHE staff). The four sites where the systems need to be installed are located in the central part of Ukraine. The procurement is funded by the World Bank as a part of Improving Power System Resilience for European Power Grid Integration Project (P176114) implemented by UHE in Ukraine. The workshop seeks to help UHE develop an optimal procurement and implementation strategy keeping in view the market readiness to assume the risks in light of the current situation in Ukraine and provide interested firms with an opportunity to raise any concerns regarding the upcoming procurement. UHE invites potential manufacturers, suppliers, or their authorized representatives to participate in the event to discuss realistic and optimal options for delivery deadlines, delivery conditions, and key requirements for the scope of related services. The discussion is expected to last no more than 3 hours. The event will be conducted in English language, and Ukrainian translation will be provided for local potential bidders. Please note that the workshop is informational in its nature and intends solely to enhance UHE’s understanding of the market. It is not part of the formal bidding process. To support the discussions, UHE kindly asks you to provide the information requested in the Invitation published at https://uhe.gov.ua/media_tsentr/anonsy_ta_oholoshennya/invitation-virtual-market-sounding-and-consultation-workshop-0 . All submitted information will be treated as confidential and will not be shared with other participants or otherwise disclosed during the workshop or afterwards. Please return the completed questionnaires prior to the event to the contact email addresses provided below. Link to more information: https://uhe.gov.ua/media_tsentr/anonsy_ta_oholoshennya/invitation-virtual-market-sounding-and-consultation-workshop-0 Contact information: Olga Hryshchenko - Director of International Projects Implementation Department PJSC “UKRHYDROENERGO” E-mail: o.hryshchenko@uhe.gov.ua Alina Cherniaieva – Contract Manager, International Projects Implementation Department PJSC “UKRHYDROENERGO” E-mail: a.cherniaieva@uhe.gov.ua Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×