Event | Invitation to EME for Hydropower Master Plan and SESA on Sustainable Power and Irrigation for Nigeria (SPIN) (Nigeria) Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Invitation to EME for Hydropower Master Plan and SESA on Sustainable Power and Irrigation for Nigeria (SPIN) (Nigeria) Share Overview The Federal Government of Nigeria on behalf of the Federal Ministry of Water Resources and Sanitation (FMWR&S) in collaboration with Federal Ministry of Power (FMP) has received financing from the World Bank toward the cost of implementing the Sustainable Power and Irrigation for Nigeria (SPIN) Project, a transformational US$500 million national initiative aimed at enhancing dam safety, modernizing irrigation systems, and supporting climate-resilient hydropower development in selected states. The SPIN Project under sub-component 1.1.3 will Prepare (i) A National Hydropower Masterplan (HMP) to serve as a strategic blueprint for identifying, prioritizing and guiding national hydropower development. (ii) A Strategic Environmental and Social Assessment (SESA) to ensure hydropower investments aligns with environmental sustainability, social inclusion, and climate resilience. The SESA will provide a framework for managing cumulative impacts, safeguarding ecosystems, and promoting equitable development. These instruments will complement the Water Resources Master Plan, inform Nigeria’s Integrated Resource Plan, and support integration of variable renewable energy to the national power grid. Objectives of the Consultancy: • Prepare a Hydropower Master Plan (HMP) for all river basins in Nigeria. • Conduct an integrated Strategic Environmental and Social Assessment (SESA) alongside the HMP. • Engage stakeholders throughout the process. • Build capacity within relevant ministries and agencies for integrated hydropower planning. • Analyze preferred hydropower portfolios and assess cumulative impacts. Objective of the EME: 1. To gather feedback to help shape the ToR, and the procurement for the Master Plan and SESA. 2. To Inform and align expectation to clarify project scope, timelines and regulatory requirement 3. Help Mitigate Risk to address environmental and social concerns early in the planning phase of the project planning 4. Create awareness and elicit the interest of hydropower consulting firms in the preparation of the Nigeria hydropower master plan 5. To build partnership by encouraging collaboration among stakeholders. Link to more information: Virtual Access: https://us06web.zoom.us/j/89907290822?pwd=EttLyT3OLAGOVhuMxVDNBeytlIXyYT.1 Meeting ID: 899 0729 0822 Passcode: SPIN1; Interested participants should confirm attendance and preferred mode of participation (in-person or virtual) by completing the online - registration form at https://forms.gle/3koU3MqzGo8V2W9y5 Contact information: Engr. Ipinlaye Olaiya National Project Coordinator Sustainable Power and Irrigation for Nigeria (SPIN) Project Plot 1402, Abba Kyari Street, Off Adesoji Aderemi Street, Apo-Abuja, FCT, Nigeria: Tel: +2348034432501 Email: info@spinproject.ng Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×