Updates - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Updates Previous 1 … 12 13 14 Next Join the ‘Data Revolution’ July 25, 2013 By Data.gov admins USDA Blog: Join the "Data Revolution", Help Lay the Groundwork for Sustainable Ag http://ow.ly/mppYn #OpenData #OpenAgData Continued Tour Data.gov 2.0 June 20, 2013 As you know, last month Data.gov launched its new open-source Data.gov 2.0 catalog (catalog.data.gov). Based on CKAN, a data management platform used by many open-data catalogs around the world, Data.gov's new catalog has received nothing but kudos from users. For… Continued APIs from the Energy Information Administration June 18, 2013 By Data.gov admins The Energy Information Administration collects statistics on energy generation, distribution and consumption in the United States. Their new APIs provide developers easy access to EIA’s extensive data on electricity, petroleum, natural gas, and more. Continued Open Data Executive Order Shows Path Forward May 28, 2013 Today, the White House is issuing a new Executive Order on Open Data – one that is significantly different from the open data policies that have come before it — reflecting Sunlight’s persistent call for stronger public listings of agency data,… Continued White House Issues Executive Order on Open Data | AIDS.gov Blog May 28, 2013 This week marks the one-year anniversary of the Digital Government Strategy, and we want to take a moment to reflect on a recent White House Executive Order about open data. This Executive Order and accompanying Continued OpenGov Voices: Data.gov relaunches on open source platform CKAN | Sunlight Foundation Blog May 28, 2013 By guest author Irina Bolychevsky, Product Owner of CKAN, Open Knowledge Foundation A huge milestone was reached yesterday with the relaunch of the U.S. government data portal on a single, open source platform. A joint collaboration between a small UK… Continued Open Data: A new goldmine | The Economist May 28, 2013 AFTER a Soviet missile shot down a South Korean airliner that strayed into Russian airspace in 1983, President Ronald Reagan made America's military satellite-navigation system, GPS, available to the world. Entrepreneurs pounced. Car-navigation, precision farming and 3m American jobs now … Continued Data.gov Launches New Catalog and APIs May 22, 2013 By Data.gov admins Data.gov is launching two innovations today to mark both the anniversary of the Digital Government Strategy and the fourth anniversary of Data.gov. First is a comprehensive listing of the application programming interfaces (APIs) that were released from across the federal… Continued Open Data for Agriculture Offers Lift-Off for Global Food Security April 29, 2013 Posted by Dr. Catherine Woteki, USDA’s Chief Scientist and Under Secretary for Research, Education and Economics, on April 29, 2013 at 2:45 PM. The opening day of the G-8 International Conference on Open Data for Agriculture was action-packed and inspiring. From the moment… Continued Innovators Using Federal Data to Help Consumers Make Informed Decisions April 16, 2013 By Sarah Gearen From shopping for an airline ticket to choosing a college or purchasing a home, consumers face increasingly complex choices in today's marketplace. Too often, the effort required to make informed financial decisions leaves many Americans in the… Continued Previous 1 … 12 13 14 Next About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov