enGENDER IMPACT: An Initiative to Synthesize and Disseminate World Bank Group Gender-Related Impact Evaluations --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Understanding Poverty Topics Gender publication enGENDER IMPACT: An Initiative to Synthesize and Disseminate World Bank Group Gender-Related Impact Evaluations Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Women in rural village, southern Bangladesh Stephan Bachenheimer / World Bank The World Bank Group has seen an increase in gender-informed operations and research in recent years. Impact evaluation (IE) is one important part of this momentum. Impact evaluation increases understanding of what works, and what doesn’t, to improve outcomes that are critical to reducing gender inequality in different contexts around the world. Impact evaluation can drive and test innovation, and contribute to evidence-based policy-making. enGENDER IMPACT serves to: 1) compile existing and planned IEs led or supported by the World Bank Group 2) organize IEs around priority areas for policy action outlined in the World Development Report 2012 on Gender & Development 3) distill standard information on all IEs so that lessons can be easily accessed and applied In doing so, enGENDER IMPACT aims to contribute to gender equality by: 1) supporting global knowledge sharing and uptake of key lessons 2) encouraging more and better IEs in key gender topics What is Impact Evaluation? An impact evaluation assesses changes in the well-being of individuals, households, communities or firms that can be attributed to a particular project, program or policy. The central impact evaluation question is what would have happened to those receiving the intervention if they had not in fact received the program. Gender Learn about the World Bank's work to promote gender equality in developing countries. Categories Gender Overview --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.