Global Knowledge and Local Wisdom: World Bank Group Academy launches Health Flagship Course in the Pacific Who We Are News FEATURE STORY May 6, 2025 Global Knowledge and Local Wisdom: World Bank Group Academy launches Health Flagship Course in the Pacific Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Nursing staff at Nadi Hospital, Fiji, provide exceptional patient care. Photo: Peter Parker/World Bank The new course, part of the World Bank Group Academy, uses an innovative approach to support countries with policy dialogue and build capacity for health system reforms toward Universal Health Coverage (UHC). People across the Pacific share a vision of “healthy islands.” However, the region faces many challenges as it seeks to invest in healthy populations and reap the economic benefits that flow from a workforce in good health. Pacific Island countries have some of the highest rates of non-communicable diseases (NCDs) in the world. Communicable diseases, like malaria and tuberculosis, are also widespread. Hospitals and health centers are often outdated and ill-equipped to respond to people’s health needs, let alone respond to the health threats of the growing frequency and severity of extreme weather events . Managing these priorities comes with a significant price tag. Post COVID-19, many of the region’s national economies are still recovering and health spending is often not enough for the strategic reforms necessary to deliver better care at lower cost. A healthy island is getting communities aware of their own health, getting communities involved in health and having clean homes, clean villages, and a clean community. Martina Suve-Hohora Manager for Policy Planning and Economics, National Department of Health, Papua New Guinea. The World Bank Group is driving solutions to build stronger, more equitable health systems. Through financing, knowledge sharing, technical assistance, and partnerships, the Bank helps strengthen health systems, expand access to health services and advance health sector job creation. Last year, the Bank announced an ambitious goal to support countries across the world to provide affordable, quality health services to 1.5 billion people by 2030 , a milestone that will drive economic development globally and advance progress towards Universal Health Coverage . The Bank is supporting eight Pacific Island Countries with $172 million in International Development Association (IDA) financing. It is also working closely with key partners, including the Australian government and the World Health Organization (WHO), to address pressing health issues, while strengthening national health systems and better preparing countries for future health emergencies. Sharing knowledge on reforms needed for better health is a key part of this effort. A cornerstone of the Bank’s support was the Pacific Health Systems Flagship Course . Faculty from the Bank’s global Health Nutrition and Population Unit coordinated closely with the Pacific Health team and regional experts to tailor a bespoke course that equipped policy makers, program managers, and technical staff from ministries of finance, development planning, and health with the best knowledge and tools to advance health sector reform. It was a compelling example of global knowledge meeting local wisdom to drive transformational health sector change. This is a unique program - a space where the Pacific comes together to learn from each other. What makes it powerful is the creative way it’s done: it’s not just about managing programs, but also about integrating a deeper understanding of leadership. Fracyne Wase-Jacklick Secretary of Health, Marshall Islands A group of policymakers from Tuvalu and World Bank participants at the Pacific Health Systems Flagship Course. Photo: Peter Parker/World Bank Knowledge for Impact The Pacific Health Systems Flagship Course is part of the new World Bank Group Academy , a strategic learning platform to empower government officials and private sector leaders to deliver transformative development solutions. The academy operates across a range of thematic areas including sustainable management of natural resources, fostering economic growth, harnessing digital technologies, and building human capital through investments in education, social protection, gender equality, and health. The Pacific course focused on strengthening health systems by equipping policymakers with a valuable set of tools to encourage integrated approaches, promote multi-perspective thinking, and reinforce evidence-based analysis and decision-making. Around 50 policymakers from Fiji, Kiribati, Papua New Guinea, Marshall Islands, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, and Tuvalu spent a week exploring common challenges and mapping out solutions. Health ministers from five countries, and senior leadership from Australia, the World Bank, and the WHO participated in an executive session, which focused on policy reforms in a context of limited resources and competing priorities post COVID-19. Recognizing the need for cross sectoral collaboration, the course enabled health ministers and policy makers to strategize and plan alongside colleagues from ministries of planning, treasury, and finance. “This is the first time that officials from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health have come together,” said Pauline McNeil, Permanent Secretary for Health in Solomon Islands. “It's good that we are here together so that we can see where we need to make improvements and how we can better the relationship and the partnership that we have.” What I have learned - and liked most about this course - is how practical it is. We not only learn the theory; we’re building models that help translate ideas into actions. Redina Auina Ministry of Finance, Tuvalu. Adaptive Action Plans for Change The Flagship Course created space for country teams to build adaptive action plans for driving change in key health system policy areas. Specific initiatives that countries are implementing include: Building an integrated health information ecosystem by establishing a Centre for Health System Improvement in Fiji. Improving access to primary health care services in Tonga, with a focus on increasing NCDs screening, detection and management in communities. Developing a primary health care policy that promotes a people-centered health care service in Kiribati. Increasing health service coverage in Papua New Guinea by focusing on the development of a well-trained workforce of frontline health workers. Boosting the availability of in-country health services by reforming Tuvalu’s “Overseas Medical Referral Scheme.” Creating a “Neighboring Island Supply Chain Roadmap” to ensure that essential medical supplies are consistently available across the Marshall Islands. Completing Samoa’s e-health system which will improve access to quality health care services at the community level. Responding to the increasing burden of NCDs in Solomon Islands by finalizing an essential health service package for primary health care at the community level. “This was an excellent opportunity to learn not only about health systems within the Pacific region but also from the international stage,” said Reynold Ofanoa, Chief Executive Officer, Ministry of Health Tonga. “We learned how they operate and how to identify and fill gaps in the health system so our people can enjoy healthier lives.” I will go back home and help advance the vision of integrating mental health services into primary care by 2030. Miliakere Nasorovakawalu Director Nursing, St Giles Psychiatric Hospital, Fiji The Future Feedback from course participants was overwhelmingly positive. 92% rated the course quality as high or very high, 96% said they gained valuable knowledge and skills, and 98% said the knowledge they gained could be applied to their work. The cohort has built a network and will continue to share progress of their countries’ reform initiatives, building the foundation for a Pacific-wide community of practice focused on health system strengthening. The World Bank Group Academy will become the host for newly revamped Health Systems Flagship Program , conceived as a convening space for key multisectoral stakeholders in the health arena to come together and find collective responses to their most striking health system performance challenges. This newly designed program aims to enhance the impact of ongoing or upcoming reforms, in the long term, and at a system level and is devised to enhance results in connection with regional health strategies. The Pacific Health Systems Flagship Course benefitted from Australian Government funding through the Advance Universal Health Coverage partnership . RELATED World Bank Group Academy Health Programs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×