Event | Global DPI Summit 2025 Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Global DPI Summit 2025 Share Overview AI-Powered Innovation for Services Program The Global Digital Public Infrastructure (DPI) Summit 2025: Turning Dialogue into Action is the world’s leading platform on how countries can design, build, and scale inclusive digital systems that enable digital ID, payments, and data sharing as a critical foundation for inclusive development. Co-hosted by the World Bank Group, Co-Develop, International Telecommunication Union (ITU), the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), and the United Nations Office for Digital and Emerging Technologies (UNODET), the Summit will bring together Heads of State, ministers, technologists, civil society, and innovators from more than 100 countries at the Cape Town International Convention Centre, November 4–6, 2025. Building on the landmark 2024 Cairo Summit, this second edition will focus on moving from alignment to measurable impact. Discussions will explore how DPI lowers the costs of delivering digital services, drives innovation and economic growth, and embeds the safeguards needed for in public services. Sessions will highlight country experiences, cutting-edge innovations, and regional priorities in Africa and beyond. The Summit’s outcomes will shape the global DPI agenda—setting standards, forging partnerships, and charting the path for inclusive, secure, and trusted digital infrastructure worldwide. Learn more about the event. To catalyze innovative solutions that can help strengthen Digital Public Infrastructure (DPI) and improve service delivery, the WBG is piloting a new program across Africa. The World Bank Group’s new AI-Powered Innovation for Services Program will help foster AI-innovation ecosystems in emerging markets by connecting local innovators with strategic partners, compute resources, localized data, and funding, to develop and scale solutions across key sectors including energy, manufacturing, health, education, and agriculture. We call on partners to join us in this new program to identify, mentor, foster and support local innovators, so new innovative AI powered ideas can bring solutions to scale and power thriving and inclusive opportunities across the region. How Partners Can Power the Change: Expertise & Co-Design: Share your sector knowledge, help co-design the Program, mentor innovators, and guide ecosystem development. Support: Offer in-kind resources—compute, APIs, developer tools, technical expertise, platform access—or funding to help prototypes grow and scale. Engagement & Market Access: Open your networks and platforms to connect innovators with markets, buyers, and pathways to adoption. The Innovation program will launch at the November 2025 DPI Summit in Cape Town, where African and global leaders will convene to advance digital transformation. This is your chance to be part of a historic journey—one that will shape the future of AI-powered service delivery, starting in Africa and to grow across the world. Partners and innovators will join together to launch the Program at these sessions on November 5th, at the Global DPI Summit. Panel discussion (10:30-11:30am): Catalyzing the Next Generation of AI-Powered Service Delivery in Africa Networking Reception (6:00-8:00pm): Bringing Together Africa’s brightest minds and global leadersReady to innovate, partner, and lead? Join us and help us build the next generation of AI solutions for inclusive growth! Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×