Event | Early Market Engagement for Third Energy Sector Project (ESP3) & Fourth Energy Sector Project (ESP4) Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Early Market Engagement for Third Energy Sector Project (ESP3) & Fourth Energy Sector Project (ESP4) Share Overview The Ministry of Energy, Mongolia invites you to participate in an Early Market Engagement (EME) session for our upcoming procurement package financed by World Bank under Third and Fourth Energy Sector Projects to strengthen and expand the electricity network in Mongolia. This session is designed to collaborate and gather your valuable insight and feedback for best outcome of the bidding process as we develop our package and bidding documents. The project intends to increase transmission capacity to improve the electricity supply reliability in central Mongolia and deliver the renewable energy generation from the resource rich areas in the south to the load center in the north in Mongolia. 1. Objectives of the Early Market Engagement • To enhance the diversity of the market and encourage potential suppliers to participate in the procurement process. • Assess overall market experience, capacity, and willingness to participate either individually or as joint ventures, especially with local firms. • To improve the employer’s requirement, technical specifications, contract terms, risk allocation, Bill of Quantities model, bid evaluation approach/ weightings. • Receive feedback on the proposed procurement approach and including rated criteria and qualification requirements. 2. Approaches of Early Market Engagement The Early Market Engagement will be conducted through: (i) a questionnaire to be completed by interested participants by 21 October 2025, Tuesday at 5:00 PM (GMT+8); and (ii) a virtual meeting to be held on 24 October 2025, Friday at 3:00 PM (GMT+8). Interested suppliers/contractors are kindly requested to register by: (i) Completing the questionnaire at the link: https://forms.cloud.microsoft/r/exYhKU9eGQ?origin=lprLink or by scanning the QR code provided at the end of this document ; and (ii) Emailing to the address above to register and confirm their participation in the EME session. For more information, please see here . Registration information: Registration by completing the questionnaire at: https://forms.cloud.microsoft/r/exYhKU9eGQ?origin=lprLink & Registration email: munkhbadral@energy.gov.mn , etumurbaatar@worldbank.org Contact info: munkhbadral@energy.gov.mn , etumurbaatar@worldbank.org Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×