Ukraine Strengthens the Public Health System to Tackle New Challenges Who We Are News This page in: English Українська This page in: English Українська FEATURE STORY July 7, 2025 Ukraine Strengthens the Public Health System to Tackle New Challenges Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina A modernized laboratory in the Ivano-Frankivsk region conducts infectious threat investigations. World Bank STORY HIGHLIGHTS A project started in 2021 to contain the COVID-19 pandemic upgraded the country’s lab capabilities and significantly helped modernize the overall public health system. With World Bank support, hundreds of hospitals across the country received generators, state-of-the-art anesthesia and respiratory equipment, cold chain storage technology, scanners, and other critical medical devices. Ukraine's public health sector is nearing EU standards, ensuring a healthier future for the people of Ukraine. Improving Labratory Capabilities In facing one crisis, a World Bank-supported health project started in 2021 to contain the COVID-19 pandemic in Ukraine rapidly pivoted to help the country’s healthcare system respond to urgent needs caused by Russia’s invasion. From upgrading laboratories’ diagnostic capabilities to helping procure over 769 generators for over 400 medical facilities to be able to operate despite war-caused power outages, the Ukraine Emergency COVID-19 Response and Vaccination Project has been committed to strengthening the country’s ability to improve public health and preserve its human capital potential. This project started as an effort to upgrade Ukraine’s COVID testing capability. Ukrainian laboratories received 1,500 complex devices such as sequencers—equipment that deciphers the genome of viruses, bacteria, and fungi—allowing epidemiologists to quickly detect and isolate any infectious disease outbreak. Before having this equipment, laboratories in Ukraine had to transport dangerous materials to the United Kingdom or Germany for analysis. "During the pandemic's peak, many laboratory tests had to be conducted. More than 1,500 equipment units were purchased for the regional Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Now, this equipment is used for detecting all infectious diseases, such as viral hepatitis, HIV, and other dangerous infectious diseases," says Ihor Kuzin , Ukraine's Chief State Sanitary Doctor, who led the implementation of the project, "Ukraine Emergency COVID-19 Response and Vaccination," from the Ministry of Health’s side. Upgrading to “Cold Chain” Technology The project also helped finance the establishment of a modern system for storing and transporting vaccines while maintaining the "cold chain" technology in all regions of Ukraine. Modern cold rooms and equipment that meet global standards have replaced old refrigerators and freezers. “We can confidently state that Ukraine's cold chain management and vaccine delivery system is among the most modern in Europe, complying with all essential norms and regulations,” adds Kuzin. New refrigerated vans have improved the quality of vaccine delivery, from storage to transportation to final destinations. Citizens planning to vaccinate, especially parents getting their children ready for school, can see refrigerators used for storing vaccines in the vaccination rooms, which bolsters their confidence in the quality of the vaccines. “I trust vaccinations and doctors, believing in the safety of vaccines, even during challenging times for our country,” said Oksana Pashanova , a mother who brought her son to the family doctor for a scheduled vaccination. Saving Lives Daily Through Better Surgery-related Equipment The project also helped upgrade various critical hospital equipment across the country, strengthening hospitals’ capabilities in treating patients. Nearly 200 hospitals received 300 modern anesthesia and respiratory equipment for use during surgery. "We can monitor numerous patient functions and observe their condition. We monitor the quality indicators of the oxygen mixture supplied to the patient,” says Stepan Cherniaiev, an anesthesiologist in the polytrauma department in a Kyiv hospital . “When you have confidence in the reliable, high-quality anesthesia and respiratory device supporting you, it allows you to concentrate fully on providing emergency care to the patient." Cardiovascular diseases are a prevalent health issue in Ukraine and increased stress levels due to the war have led to a rise in heart attacks. The project helped improve stroke treatment across the country by installing 38 computed tomography scanners and 11 angiographs for diagnosing cardiovascular diseases. A new computed tomography scanner helps doctors deliver high-quality care. "Increased stress levels and the lack of timely diagnoses have led to a rise in heart attacks, while strokes are becoming more frequent among younger individuals. In the past year alone, nearly 127,000 cases of strokes and approximately 46,000 cases of heart attacks were reported," said Viktor Liashko, Minister of Health of Ukraine . Supporting Hospital Resilience During the War The war has also required medics to tackle issues such as power outages and an unstable electricity supply to hospitals and laboratories. Therefore, 769 generators were delivered to all regions of the country. “Since the beginning of the war, disruptions in the power supply have presented significant challenges to our work. The provision of generators and uninterrupted power units has enabled us to maintain the stable functioning of our laboratory equipment. This allows us to provide the residents of the Lviv region with high-quality laboratory tests necessary for diagnosing diseases,” says Natalia Ivanchenko, General Director of the Lviv Regional Center for Disease Control and Prevention . Ukraine's public health sector maintains resilience and is building its potential to meet European Union standards. Improving its medical waste management system is one of these standards. “Decontamination equipment enables the processing and disinfection of medical waste, including epidemiologically hazardous materials. This capability allows hospitals to reduce disposal costs. Sterilization enhances the volume of waste that can be recycled, which can, for example, generate thermal energy,” said Pavlyna Polyukhovych, a waste management specialist at Rivne Regional Clinical Hospital. Ukrainian health workers aptly responded to the global COVID crisis. They carried forward their resilience, solidarity, and eagerness to acquire new knowledge and skills to tackle the unique health challenges posed by the last three years of war. The $330 million Ukraine Emergency COVID-19 Response and Vaccination Project was completed in March 2025 and is one of several health projects that the Bank and the Government of Ukraine have undertaken to strengthen Ukraine’s health sector. RELATED Other joint projects in the health sector between the World Bank and the Ministry of Health Project "Strengthening the Health System and Saving Lives" (HEAL): above $320 million available within the project, and 45% of the funds have been disbursed. Project "Transforming Healthcare through Reform and Investment in Efficiency" (THRIVE): above $450 million available, and 60% disbursed. Project "Emergency COVID-19 Response and Vaccination" : completed in March 2025, with above $330 million financing and almost 99% disbursement. Project "Improving Healthcare in the Service of People" : completed in June 2024, with almost $350 million financed and almost 100% of the funds disbursed. Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×