News & Events Indonesia Sustainable Oceans Program This page in: EN --> dropdown Bahasa Indonesia This page in: _ English Bahasa Indonesia --> dropdown Indonesia Sustainable Oceans Program Home Overview Focus Areas Publications Partners Blogs & Stories News & Events News Fisheries and food security: opportunities for Indonesia Blog Fisheries are vital to global food security, supplying over 20% of dietary protein for 3 billion people. Yet, 35% of marine stocks are overexploited. A World Bank study in Indonesia shows that sustainable management—through harvest limits and supply chain investments—can boost long-term economic benefits by over $250 million annually. Focusing on skipjack tuna, snapper-grouper, and scad mackerel, the study highlights the need for tailored strategies to balance ecological health, food security, and livelihoods. How Indonesia is Combating Marine Plastic Pollution from Source to Sea Blog The World Bank carried out studies to inform policymaking and guide concrete actions on combating marine debris. Read the blog to find out the major sources of Indonesia’s marine plastic debris and policy recommendations for addressing the issue. A Quarter-Century Legacy of Coral Reef Conservation and Community Impact in Indonesia Feature Story In this feature story, we share stories of community-based, decentralized management for improved coral cover and livelihoods in East Nusa Tenggara and West Papua, Indonesia. The World Bank-supported Coral Reef Rehabilitation and Management Program (COREMAP) has established a legacy of supporting Indonesia’s protection of coastal resources, designation of marine protected areas, and enhanced research and oversight of coastal ecosystems. From Africa to Asia, supporting fisheries to address climate change impacts blog The impacts of climate change on nature are cumulative and dynamic. A case in point: the multiple impacts of climate change on fish. Rising temperatures, acidification, and sea-level rise are altering ocean conditions and displacing fish stocks. Discover the various climate change impacts on fish and how the World Bank helps tackle this issue. Mangrove Conservation and Restoration: Protecting Indonesia’s “Climate Guardians” feature story As the guardians of local homes and livelihoods, mangroves provide shoreline protection from storms and tsunamis, reduce flood-risks, inundation, and erosion. Mangroves also store significant amount of carbon. Discover the various efforts already underway - by the Government as well as communities - to sustainably manage this important ecosystem. Conserving Oceans in the Eastern Seas of an Indonesian Archipelago Feature Story Today, a number of challenges threaten Indonesia’s oceans and the lives and livelihoods of those who depend on them. Despite these conditions, there is still hope for the earth and for people in the eastern seas of Indonesia through conservation work lead by local heroes and leaders. Discover the stories of Marsel, Githa, Wawan Mangile, and many more on the shores of Raja Ampat as they work tirelessly to conserve Indonesia's oceans. Indonesia: Managing oceans sustainably supports livelihoods World Oceans Day in 2021 For World Oceans Day in 2021, we reflect on the solutions Indonesia can take to ensure a smooth transition to a Blue Economy. The government of Indonesia has taken steps to improve the conditions and sustainability of the oceans by including objectives aligned with sustainable ocean economy principles in the National Medium-Term Development Plan (RPJMN). But there remains a great deal of work to do for the private sector, communities, and other stakeholders in Indonesia. A Sustainable Ocean Economy is Key to Indonesia’s Prosperity press release A sustainable ocean economy will be critical to Indonesia in achieving resilient coastal livelihoods, a healthy marine environment, and a thriving national economy, according to Oceans for Prosperity: Reforms for a Blue Economy in Indonesia , a report released by the World Bank. But there are challenges to Indonesia's marine and coastal ecosystems that, if not managed, could undermine the potential of the country's ocean economy. Blog: Four strategies for a blue economy in Indonesia: Reflections from the Oceans for Prosperity report | Infographic | Download report (pdf) | Video New Initiative to Improve Sustainability of Indonesia’s Fisheries Press release The World Bank in partnership with the Government of Indonesia has launched the Coastal Fisheries Initiative Challenge Fund. With financing of USD$1 million from the Global Environment Facility, the Challenge Fund will support sustainable investments into Indonesia's coastal fisheries sector. Marine science for healthy reefs and resilient communities: 21 years of COREMAP in Indonesia Blog The government of Indonesia's Coral Reef Rehabilitation and Management Program (COREMAP), financed by the World Bank and the Global Environment Facility , has been gradually but significantly building such science and management capacity over a period of 21 years. Bioindustry business: could the humble sea cucumber transform rural coastal livelihoods in Indonesia? Blog On the island of Lombok, COREMAP–CTI is helping to fund LIPI’s Bioindustry Center where scientists are looking at how local communities can breed certain varieties of sea cucumber for sale. The poverty rate in Indonesia’s coastal areas is higher than the national average and diversifying livelihoods in communities that rely primarily on fishing is critical. Stemming the plastics tide in Indonesia: Policy, investments, and research Feature Story To support the country’s transition toward a Blue Economy—the sustainable use of ocean resources for economic growth and livelihoods while maintaining healthy marine ecosystems—the World Bank is assisting the government of Indonesia in curbing marine plastic pollution and protecting the country’s precious natural resources. Video Indonesian ministries launched COREMAP-CTI small-grants initiative for West Papua and East Nusa Tenggara, Indonesia Video Indonesia Economic Quarterly: Oceans of Opportunity Video About ISOP Indonesia’s Sustainable Oceans Program (ISOP) is supporting Indonesia’s transition to a blue economy by increasing the economic, social, and environmental benefits derived from healthy coastal and marine ecosystems. Read More Arrow Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->