Tackling HIV among Vulnerable Groups in Burundi --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Tackling HIV among Vulnerable Groups in Burundi December 1, 2011 This page in: English Français Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Cecil, a former sex worker in the Birimba neighborhood of Rumonge, Burundi. STORY HIGHLIGHTS HIV/AIDS has declined in Burundi, with support from the World Bank and others Condom use has gone up to 92 percent among 14,000 female sex workers Many sex workers have turned to other work using small grants When her husband died of AIDS in 2002, Jeanne—a young woman living in the town of Rumonge on the shores of Lake Tanganyika—turned to sex work to be able to raise her two young children. A decade later, she is 39 years old and now knows she has HIV. With a small grant from a World Bank-supported HIV/AIDS project implemented by Population Services International in Burundi, Jeanne was able to seek an alternative living by selling cassava flour with her friend Bella. Cassava is a staple grown around Rumonge. " “My older child has begun the advanced level and my second child is Primary Two,” Jeanne says, “I gave up sex work because I am now able to get food and school fees for my children.” She now gets treatment for HIV from a local health facility, and stopped sex work three months ago. " Jeanne A young woman living in the town of Rumonge on the shores of Lake Tanganyika Like Jeanne, Cecile 25, who started sex work at the age of 13, was able to give up sex work and start a palm oil business using a grant from the same project. “With 2000 Burundi francs ($1.50), I’m able to pay my daily food ration,”says Cecile, who is HIV-negative and glad that she no longer has to go from pub to pub in search of clients. Preventing the spread of HIV, especially among vulnerable groups Through the project, which covered all of Burundi’s 17 provinces, Jeanne, Bella, Cecile, and over 14,000 other female sex workers in the country have learned more about HIV and other infections. “We have been sensitized by watching movies showing that HIV/AIDS kills and we were given condoms to protect ourselves against sexually transmitted infections,”Jeanne says. As a result of this outreach and support from other donors, condom use among female sex workers covered by this project—which specifically targets vulnerable groups—has gone up by 10 percentage points, from 82 percent in 2008 to nearly 92 percent in June 2011. More broadly, preliminary data from the 2010 Demographic and Health Survey for Burundi estimate that 14 percent of men aged 15-49 who have had more than one sexual partner in the past 12 months reported using a condom, up from 6 percent reported by the 2007 Behavioral Surveillance Survey. Besides vulnerable groups, the project also targeted people living with HIV/AIDS and affected individuals and families; and pregnant women and their babies. It has helped to raise the share of HIV-affected pregnant women treated with antiretroviral (ARV) drugs from 15 percent in 2008 to 41 percent in June 2011. ARVs reduce the risk of mother-to-child transmission of HIV. These are notable results, as there were about 180,000 people living with HIV in Burundi in 2009 (UNAIDS, 2009). As part of its National Health Strategy, the government has been trying to check the spread of sexually transmitted infections and improve the quality of life of those living with HIV. The project, along with significant support from other donors, has contributed to Burundi’s declining HIV prevalence rate among the general population from an estimated three percent in 2007 to 1.4 percent in 2010. Results-Based Financing in Burundi Behind the scenes, an approach known as “results-based financing” has recently helped to ramp up the national HIV/AIDS response. Here, frontline health facilities are paid based on delivery of a pre-agreed set of health services, such as the number of HIV detections. Following well-documented results in Rwanda—where the results-based financing of frontline health facilities partly contributed to dramatic improvements in some health indicators—Burundi is seeing early success as well, with technical assistance from the World Bank. Since Burundi scaled up results-based financing and included several HIV/AIDS indicators in the scheme, there have been sharp increases in the number of people seeking voluntary testing and counseling, the number of persons newly put on ARV, the number of HIV positive pregnant mothers under treatment to prevent transmission to their babies, and more.` Changes in clinical HIV indicators in Burundi (2005 – 2011) VCT = Voluntary Counseling and Testing; ARV = Anti-retrovirals; PMTCT = Pregnant Mother to Child Transmission; MC = Male circumcision. All indicators in 10s except VCT (1000s) "World Bank support in mitigating HIV/AIDS amongst vulnerable groups has been transformative,” said Mercy M. Tembon, World Bank Acting Country Director for Burundi, Uganda and Tanzania, and Country Manager for Burundi. “The strong results registered clearly demonstrate how our support has made a difference and improved the lives of the young women involved in the sex trade. This effort has also contributed to the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals on gender equality and empowerment of women, as well as on combating diseases such as HIV/AIDS." RELATED WORLD BANK Video: Interviews with sex workers in Rumonge, Burundi: Cecile's story Video: Interviews with sex workers in Rumonge, Burundi: Chantal's story Video: Interviews with sex workers in Rumonge, Burundi: Gentille’s story Video: Interviews with sex workers in Rumonge, Burundi: Bella and Jeanne’s stories Website: World Bank Human Development in Africa Website: The World Bank in Burundi Website: The World Bank in Africa EXTERNAL Video: Interview with Michel Sidibe, Head of UNAIDS Burundi Home Health Nutrition Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.