Sandro Maluck Home Who We Are Experts Sandro Maluck Sandro Maluck Alternate Executive Director: EDS05, Executive Directors, EDS Sandro Maluck World Bank Group 1818 H Street NW Washington, DC 20433 USA smaluck@worldbank.org worldbank.org/eds05 Sandro Maluck is the World Bank Group Alternate Executive Director representing Germany since November 2024. Before joining the World Bank Group, Mr. Maluck held various positions at the German Federal Ministry of Finance, the Federal Chancellery, and the IMF. His last position before joining the World Bank Group was Head of Division Policy Planning and Strategy in the Federal Ministry, where he oversaw key policies on financial market regulation as well as budget and fiscal policies. Before that, he served as a senior policy advisor on issues related to G7, G20, macroeconomic stability, and monetary policy. From 2015 to 2018 he worked as an Advisor and Senior Advisor for the German Executive Director at the International Monetary Fund where he primarily delt with IMF's lending programs, issues related to global financial stability, and the strengthening of the Poverty Reduction and Growth Fund. As a financial market advisor for the Parliamentary Group Bündnis 90/Die Grünen in the German Bundestag, he provided expert guidance on financial regulation and policy proposals, advocating for sustainable and fair financial practices. Earlier in his career, he worked in the Federal Chancellery's G7/G20 Sherpa Office - preparing and accompanying the Chancellor and her Sherpa to summits and international meetings - as well as in the Division National and International Financial Market Policy; Financial Market Law . At the beginning of his career, he completed the traineeship of the Deutsche Bundesbank with a focus on macroeconomic and monetary policy, as well as banking supervision and regulatory issues. Mr. Maluck earned a bachelor's degree in modern history in 2000 at the Humboldt Universität Berlin, and a master's degree in economy in 2003 at Freie Universität Berlin. MORE FROM Sandro Maluck