Smart Containment: How Low-Income Countries Can Tailor Their COVID-19 Response Understanding Poverty Topics Poverty BRIEF May 13, 2020 Smart Containment: How Low-Income Countries Can Tailor Their COVID-19 Response Email Print Tweet Share Share LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Low-income countries will have a much harder time putting their economies in a “ medically induced coma ” in response to the coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19). They are home to many of the extreme poor, who, for the most part, have no option but to live in overcrowded conditions with limited access to clean water and sanitation . They work in the informal sector, often for a daily wage, depend heavily on public service provision, and have limited savings and no access to credit. For many, staying at home is not a viable option , and not working comes at the expense of food and other necessities. Therefore, as is widely acknowledged, low-income countries (LIC) face especially difficult choices when it comes to the response to COVID-19. As opposed to widespread lockdowns, we argue in this note[PDF] that a policy of “smart containment,” based on the idea of graded lockdowns, can work, if accompanied by considerable policy flexibility and intense data support. We present a three-part argument. First, we highlight reasons why a policy of wholesale lockdowns will be costly and potentially harmful for many, especially the poor. Second, we describe a policy of smart containment. Third, we discuss what it implies in terms of government actions. Download the Note[PDF]: Smart Containment: How Low-Income Countries Can Tailor Their COVID-19 Response Read the blog post here. RELATED WORLD BANK Blog - Smart containment: How low-income countries can tailor their COVID-19 response How the World Bank Group is helping countries with COVID-19 (coronavirus) Poverty and Distributional Impacts of COVID-19: Potential Channels of Impact and Mitigating Policies COVID-19 will hit the poor hardest. Here’s what we can do about it The coronavirus is not gender-blind, nor should we be MORE Poverty and Equity Data Inequality and Shared Prosperity Poverty and Shared Prosperity Series Fragility and Conflict: On the Front Lines of the Fight against Poverty MULTIMEDIA VIDEO Oct 17, 2018 New ways of looking at poverty Experts --> Luis Felipe López-Calva Global Director, Poverty Global Department, World Bank Group Luis Felipe López-Calva Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->