State and Peace-Building Fund (SPF): Our Niche and Where We Work --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY State and Peace-Building Fund (SPF): Our Niche and Where We Work February 2, 2015 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> The SPF is designed to explore innovative approaches to peace- and state-building in a range of difficult fragile and conflict-affected environments. It finances strategic and catalytic development interventions and leverages partnerships that over the long-term promote resilient institutions that are able to manage the internal and external stresses that can increase the risk of conflict and violence. The SPF’s niche The particular niche of the SPF is its ability to secure funding where IDA cannot, in countries with limited IDA, and in special IBRD cases. 74 percent of SPF grants have been awarded for innovative programming in countries with limited or no access to other types of funding for fragility, conflict and violence (FCV) related activities, or for IBRD countries that would not borrow for conflict and crisis response. The SPF also supports innovative pilot activities that can be scaled up, informs FCV sensitive project design and captures and disseminates lessons on what works best in countries impacted by FCV. SPF funding is available to all WBG member countries as well as countries in arrears and non-members- with limited or no access to other sources of Bank financing- on a case-by case basis. At present, the SPF responds to diverse FCV challenges in 34 countries, with the Africa region being the largest recipient of new SPF funding, followed by the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region. The regional distribution of SPF grants is also geared towards support for projects in Africa and MENA: Africa: 46 % of SPF program activities are implemented in Africa and address multiple forms of FCV. These include three Africa-focused strategic initiatives, such as the Strategy Initiative for Somalia Re-engagement (SISR), which provides a foundation for the World Bank’s expanding support for Somalia’s transition process. See more information MENA: 23 % of SPF supported projects are found in the Middle East and North Africa region and focus primarily on crises and political transitions. Substantial SPF funding has been directed toward support for local communities in Jordan and Lebanon to manage the human and economic impacts of the Syrian refugee crisis. East Asia and the Pacific: SPF programs in the East Asia and Pacific region predominantly address subnational conflict and small island state fragility. In FCV affected areas in Southern Thailand, the SPF supports innovative community based approaches to promote peace-building in a middle-income context. See more information Latin America and Caribbean: Urban crime and violence are the SPF’s main areas of focus in Latin America. In April 2012, it launched the Central America Citizen Security Initiative, which combines education, social services, job creation, youth outreach and judicial activities across Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala. Europe and Central Asia: SPF programs in this region tend to be varied and address multiple forms of violence and fragility. The Europe and Central Asia Strategic Initiative on Fragility and Conflict (ESIF) focuses on conflict sensitive capacity building, youth inclusion, community based development and regional dialogue throughout the ECA region. In addition to these programs, the SPF also funds a range of regionally focused and global initiatives. Small-sale SPF programming exists in the South Asia region (SAR) but is limited, mainly due to the presence of other large-scale country-based trust funds such as the Afghanistan Reconstruction Fund. RELATED WORLD BANK More about SPF Fragile, Conflict and Violence Home Fragility, Conflict and Violence Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.