Illicit Financial Flows: A Global Challenge Underestimated --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Illicit Financial Flows: A Global Challenge Underestimated October 13, 2014 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> On October 11, 2014, during its Annual Meetings, the World Bank Group convened a public forum on illicit financial flows with high-profile speakers from Bangladesh, Denmark and Norway, as well as the Washington, D.C.-based research and advocacy organization Global Financial Integrity. The speakers at the forum stressed the need for a higher pace and a broader range of actions to curb the negative impact of illicit financial flows on sustainable development. Illicit financial flows are detrimental to sustainable development Illicit financial flows (IFFs) is a catch-all term for capital flight of money that is illegally earned, transferred or spent, and includes money flows relating to corruption, tax evasion, organized crime, trade mispricing, illegal trade in natural resources, and trafficking of drugs, weapons and humans. At the forum, Raymond Baker , President of Global Financial Integrity (GFI), and Nena Stoiljkovic, Global Practices Vice President of the World Bank Group (WBG), underscored the detrimental effect of IFFs on development: draining of hard currency reserves, heightened inflation, reduced tax collection, curtailed investment, undermining of free trade, limits on poverty alleviation and complicated security concerns. According to the 2011 World Development Report , "when state institutions do not adequately protect citizens, guard against corruption, or provide access to justice; when markets do not provide job opportunities; or when communities have lost social cohesion-the likelihood of violent conflict increases." Illicit Financial Flows: Global Initiatives To reverse the tide, the global community has enhanced its momentum over the past few years. Progress has been made through the work of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), G20 and G8, Financial Action Task Force and Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes. The Stolen Asset Recovery Initiative (StAR), the partnership between the World Bank Group and United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), assists countries in tracing and recovering stolen assets that have been funneled abroad. The forthcoming report from the High Level Panel on Illicit Financial Flows from Africa , chaired by His Excellency Thabi Mbeki, former president of South Africa, is expected to recommend purposeful and aggressive steps needed to curtail IFFs. The UN Open Working Group on Sustainable Development Goals has proposed post-2015 targets to "by 2030 significantly reduce illicit financial and arms flows, strengthen recovery and return of stolen assets, and combat all forms of organized crime," as well as "substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all its forms" and "develop effective, accountable and transparent institutions at all levels." At the forum, GFI advocated that the target on IFFs be rephrased to "cut illicit financial flows stemming from trade mis-invoicing by 50 percent in 15 years," creating a measurable and achievable common commitment for developed and developing countries. The Post-2015 Sustainable Development Goals will require massive mobilization of new investment resources for developing countries, as emphasized at the forum by Dr. Atiur Rahman, Governor of the Central Bank of Bangladesh and Hans Brattskar, State Secretary for International Development from the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Private and public, domestic and international resources will be needed. But given the realities of ODA, developing countries will need to rely mainly on domestic resource mobilization. Brattskar pledged that Norway would use its role as co-chair for the Financing for Development process to put illicit financial flows squarely at the center of the preparations for next year's conference in Addis Ababa. Currently, only 1% of ODA is used for stimulating domestic resource mobilization. Dr. Rahman suggested that development partners could commit a certain percentage of their ODA for domestic resource mobilization. Both Norway and Denmark have achieved increased resource mobilization in the multiples through partner programs on tax in developing countries. " Recovering stolen assets sends a strong signal on the authorities' stance on illicit financial flows. " Atiur Rahman Governor, Central Bank of Bangladesh What can be done? Recognizing that this is not a problem confined to developing countries, Mogens Jensen, Danish Minister of Trade and Development, spoke to the need for a stronger global framework that brings together developed and developing countries ( A Shared Agenda - Denmark's Action Plan for Policy Coherence for Development ), and that Denmark would take its share of the responsibility. Dr. Rahman stressed the responsibility of developing countries in securing strong institutions to control illicit flows, with capacity to investigate wrongdoing and enforce the laws, and the need for support from the international community to do this. Brattskar emphasized the convening power of the World Bank Group, and urged the World Bank to bridge the current global initiatives and the needs of WBG client countries, in particular least developed countries, and fragile and conflict-affected states. World Bank Group Studies and Reports Studies specifically on IFFs Draining Development? Controlling flows of illicit funds from developing countries (2012) Studies on the economic impact of the proceeds of crime (Financial Market Integrity | Finance and Markets) Pirate Trails: Tracking the Illicit Financial Flows from Pirate Activities off the Horn of Africa (2013) Justice for Forests: Improving Criminal Justice Efforts to Combat Illegal Logging (2012) Ill-gotten Money and the Economy: Experiences from Malawi and Namibia (2011) Reports and databases on the proceeds of corruption (WB/UNODC StAR Initiative | Finance and Markets) Few and Far: The Hard Facts on Stolen Asset Recovery (2014) (measures progress of OECD countries in freezing and returning assets between 2006 and 2012) Asset Recovery Watch Database tracks all known asset recovery cases, and provides a “one stop shop” to access the related public case information. The Puppet Masters: How the Corrupt Use Legal Structures to Hide Stolen Assets and What to Do About It (2011) (includes recommendations to improve the international framework and its implementation on beneficial ownership) RELATED WORLD BANK World Bank Work on IFFs Event: Illicit Financial Flows and the Post-2015 Development Agenda EXTERNAL Global Financial Integrity Stolen Asset Recovery Initiative Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.