Country Private Sector Diagnostic for Thailand: Rebooting Productivity for Resilient Growth Where We Work Thailand This page in: EN --> dropdown ไทย This page in: _ English ไทย --> dropdown publication February 22, 2022 Country Private Sector Diagnostic for Thailand: Rebooting Productivity for Resilient Growth Email Print Tweet Share Share LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Key Findings The Country Private Sector Diagnostics (CPSD) for Thailand report is a joint World Bank and IFC project aimed at assessing the challenges and opportunities for private sector led growth in the context of living with COVID-19. It finds that to put Thailand’s growth trajectory back on track, a new development model can embrace the digital and circular economy as levers for growth. But seizing on this opportunity would require addressing the following important constraints to investment: Enhance competition : Increasing competition and creating an even playing field can promote the emergence of an innovative private sector. Promote foreign direct investments (FDI) : Restrictions to foreign direct investments further reduce competition and stall the benefits of knowledge and innovation spillovers that might result from greater participation of foreign firms in the economy. Expand access to the workforce skills of the future : The supply of appropriate skills is missing due to falling working age population, few foreign professionals, underemployment, obsolete curricula. On the other, demand is high for innovative skills leading to a mismatch. Expand access to innovative finance : Despite a mature financial sector, low access to innovation financing further impedes the ability of firms, especially MSMEs, to adopt new circular business models and technology. Address key sector specific constraints: (a) Disruptive and digital technology : Highly complex digital regulatory framework. (b) Circular economy : Create a more targeted regulatory framework covering circular economy, institutional fragmentation in understanding and adoption of circularity, and supporting physical infrastructure, specifically reverse logistics system. To meet these short- and medium-term challenges, Thailand needs to foster a new innovation-led growth model to jumpstart its path to reaching high income status and create better jobs in the future. The CPSD has outlined a list of recommendations to help unlock potential. The top priority ones are: Strengthen competition laws enforcement can help create more competition and promote easing of restrictions to hire of expatriate and foreign experts. Improve the Foreign Business License (FBL) especially on capital requirements for FDI and operating expense requirements. Introduce a skill-monitoring system and include the private sector perspective in curriculum design. Increase efficiency in the TVET system Increase the number of child development centers to support female labor force participation. Strengthen financial infrastructure and increase SME access by ensuring effective implementation of a digital-factoring initiative to promote supply-chain financing and enable SME access to key value chains. MULTIMEDIA VIDEO Feb 25, 2022 Innovation Key to Jumpstarting Thailand's Economic Recovery RELATED Press Release: Digital and Disruptive Technology Along with Circular Economy Can Generate Up to $3.4 Billion in Investments, Cost Savings and Revenues for Thailand Video: Innovation Key to Thailand's Economic Recovery Infographic: Thailand Country Private Sector Diagnostic Download One-page Summary Download Report Download PPT (ENG) Download PPT (TH) Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->