Inequality in Focus, April 2013: Spotlight on South Africa and on Food Insecurity --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Understanding Poverty Topics Poverty publication Inequality in Focus, April 2013: Spotlight on South Africa and on Food Insecurity Latest Issue: Volume 2, Number 1 Latest Issue: Volume 2, Number 1 --> Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> World Bank In this issue "The State of Opportunities in South Africa: Inequality Among Children and in the Labor Market" "Climate Change and Inequality: What Can Current Patterns of Food Insecurity Tell Us?" The quarterly newsletter Inequality in Focus continues to explore aspects of inequality, this time taking us to South Africa and, in the second article, exploring the connection between climate change, food insecurity and inequality. Access the latest issue here. Français Español Apartheid's Legacy: Inequality of Opportunity South Africa, the African continent's largest economy by far, displays strikingly high and persistent inequality for an upper middle-income country. Ambar Narayan and Sandeep Mahajan tell us that this is due, in large part, to the enduring legacy of the apartheid system, which denied rights to non-whites. " Inequality in South Africa is an enduring legacy of the apartheid system, which denied non-whites the chance to accumulate capital in any form. " Climate Change Effects on Food Insecurity Much of the discussion about climate change and inequality focuses on how greenhouse gas emissions of wealthy nations contribute to the climate impacts suffered by poor countries. So how will climate change affect the food security of poor households in rural and urban areas? Nancy McCarthy, Leslie Lipper and Maximillian Ashwill lay out evidence showing that the urban poor will be especially vulnerable as food prices rise. Read more . " Because poor people in urban environments spend a large share of their budgets on food, they will be hit disproportionally by higher food prices...In rural areas, the impacts will be more complex. " World Bank Inequality and Shared Prosperity Poverty What drives inequality and how does it affect poverty reduction efforts and economic growth? The World Bank's "Inequality in Focus" newsletter seeks to answer these and many other questions. About Inequality in Focus Subscribe Contact us Past issues RELATED REPORT Jobs for Shared Prosperity: Time for Action in the Middle East and North Africa Apr 25, 2013 ARTICLE Argentina, Brazil and Mexico Leading the Fight Against Inequality Jan 25, 2013 ARTICLE Why We Should Care About Inequality Mar 30, 2012 MULTIMEDIA Video VIDEO Jim Yong Kim says World Can End Extreme Poverty and Increase Shared Prosperity --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.