New Report Offers the Most Extensive Global Resource on Reserve Management Practices Who We Are News PRESS RELEASE November 13, 2025 New Report Offers the Most Extensive Global Resource on Reserve Management Practices Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina From left to right: Jorge Familiar, Vice President & Treasurer, World Bank, and Pablo Saavedra, World Bank Vice President for the Prosperity vertical at the report’s launch event in Washington, DC. World Bank Group Washington, DC, November 13, 2025 – A new World Bank report offers the most comprehensive view yet of global reserve management practices, drawing on survey responses from 136 central banks worldwide, the highest participation in the survey’s history. The 5 th Biennial Reserve Management Survey Report 2025 , produced by the World Bank Treasury’s Reserve Advisory & Management Partnership (RAMP), provides insight into how central banks safeguard national wealth, strengthen financial resilience, and adapt to global change. The 5 th Biennial World Bank’s Reserve Management Survey Report 2025 captures the priorities and practices shaping reserve management today, from governance and institutional frameworks to investment strategies and capacity development. Together, these insights help benchmark global approaches to reserve management and inform policy discussions on stability, liquidity, and long-term resilience. “The 2025 report offers a unique window into how central banks are preparing for the future,” said Jorge Familiar , Vice President and Treasurer of the World Bank . “The breadth of participation reflects the importance central banks place on peer benchmarking and global knowledge exchange. This report helps reserve managers identify emerging practices and strengthen the foundations for resilience and transparency in public asset management.” The survey builds on more than a decade of collaboration between the World Bank Treasury and official-sector institutions through RAMP, a global partnership supporting over 90 members, including central banks and other public asset management institutions. By sharing data and analysis on reserve management trends, the report contributes to international efforts to enhance transparency, governance, and capacity in public asset management. “Sound foreign exchange reserves management is a critical aspect of macroeconomic and financial stability,” said Pablo Saavedra , World Bank Vice President for the Prosperity vertical . “As global conditions evolve, effective reserve management helps countries foster market confidence and enables flexibility to react to external shocks.” Since its launch in 2018, the Reserve Management Survey Report has become one of the world’s leading references on official reserve practices. The biennial publication complements RAMP’s broader mission to foster knowledge sharing, peer learning, and technical assistance that help countries manage public assets more effectively. World Bank RAMP The World Bank Reserve Advisory & Management Partnership (RAMP) delivers advisory services, executive training, and asset management services in a global network of nearly 100 public asset management institutions that collectively manage over $2 trillion in assets. Established in 2001, the World Bank RAMP promotes countries’ stability, resiliency, and prosperity through public asset management—helping central banks respond to economic shocks, sovereign wealth funds protect intergenerational wealth, and public pension funds ensure future payments. The World Bank RAMP has advised over 100 public institutions and trained over 10,000 public asset management staff on sound public asset management practices. Learn more at ramp.worldbank.org . Contacts Washington, DC Robert Lucas Financial Officer rlucas1@worldbank.org RELATED World Bank Reserve Advisory & Management Partnership (RAMP) Treasury Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×