Building for the Future: Mongolia’s Opportunity --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News OPINION Building for the Future: Mongolia’s Opportunity December 11, 2014 This page in: English Монгол Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Axel van Trotsenburg Mongol Messenger weekly A wise Mongolian proverb reminds us that “times are not always the same; the iris is not always blue.” The changes to the Mongolian economy since my last visit here just over a year ago attest to the truth of this proverb. Then, the mining boom that spurred economic growth into double digits was still in full swing, and efforts focused on spending future profits or investing it in much-needed human and physical capital. Today, the boom times and accompanying euphoria seem long ago. Growth has slowed considerably, foreign direct investment has fallen and inflation remains in double digits as Mongolia grapples with decreasing foreign exchange reserves and a widening fiscal deficit. External factors, such as falling commodity prices and slower growth in Mongolia’s trade partners, contributed. Such vulnerability to market forces is a risk facing all natural resource-led economies. Successfully managing the cyclical nature of a resource-driven economy requires tough fiscal discipline when times are good. In dealing with the inevitable ups and downs, resource-rich countries that maintain discipline during good times have more resources and options for when things turn bad. This is easier said than done, as no one wants to imagine at the height of a boom that the good times will end. But end they eventually do, and countries that have saved for the future better manage the ups and downs of a natural resource-driven economy. At the heart of such a strategy, however, is the need to build trust that the surplus from a natural resources boom will be used wisely and efficiently. Such trust is not easily attained, and all countries must struggle to retain it, but there are things that can be done. Deepening the progress that Mongolia has already made on governance will be essential. Strengthening transparency, managing conflicts of interest and fighting corruption all help to build the trust required for the necessary political and popular consensus to properly manage the natural resource-led macro economy. In the end, though, development is about people and the betterment of the living conditions of the population. Supporting greater diversification of the economy would not only help reduce the amplitude of the boom-bust cycles of natural resources, but would also strengthen the link between growth, on the one hand, and job creation, poverty reduction, and trust, on the other hand. The good news is that there are viable policy options to do so. Some countries such as Chile and Norway have shown how to successfully implement policies that optimize, in a transparent way, the impact of natural wealth for the population and over time. In addition, Mongolia can count on bilateral and multilateral parties such as the World Bank to assist in this effort. A diverse and growing economy, one that helps people rise out of poverty, one that ensures that Mongolia’s prosperity is widely shared across the population, can again be within Mongolia’s grasp. It will take a concerted effort in adopting a policy package aimed at restoring macroeconomic stability, improving regulatory reform, and enhancing international competitiveness. The pay-off of this effort would be an iris that turns blue again. Mongolia East Asia Pacific Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.