World Bank China Country Director Speaks about China’s New Role in the Global Economy --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY World Bank China Country Director Speaks about China’s New Role in the Global Economy November 9, 2011 This page in: English 中文 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Beijing, November 9, 2011 - As an important part of the 7 th Beijing International Finance Expo, the International Finance Annual Forum was held on November 3 and 4. World Bank Country Director for China Klaus Rohland made a speech on China’s New Role in the Global Economy. Given the changing global and domestic economic situation and financial sector, participants discussed range of topics including China’s macro economy review and outlook, impact of the global financial crisis on China’s capital market, acceleration of the economic restructuring, market innovation, monetary policy, strengthening governance structure and improving insurance services, urbanization and innovation in financial services, business diversification and development prospects of asset management companies, financial services for small businesses, and role of the IMF and G20, offering ideas and suggestions for financial sector development in Beijing and China. The Forum was sponsored by the Beijing Municipal Finance Bureau, Xicheng District Government, China Banking Association, China Securities Association, China Insurance Association and China Society For Finance and Banking. The four-day Expo attracted more than 280,000 visitors. RELATED WORLD BANK China’s New Role in the Global Economy China East Asia Pacific Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.