Food Relief for Poor Afghans Amid COVID-19 Who We Are News FEATURE STORY May 4, 2021 Food Relief for Poor Afghans Amid COVID-19 Email Print Tweet Share Share LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Bibi Sakina after receiving the relief package from Dasterkhwan-e-Mili program. She is among nearly 750,000 Afghan famlies who has received this pacakge and relived from economic impacts of COVID-19. World Bank Story Highlights: 750,000 Afghan households facing food insecurity and hunger have received food and basic necessities packages. Over 5 million households are expected to benefit. Two World Bank projects support this relief effort through the Afghan government's Dastarkhwan-e-Meli program, which aims to alleviate hunger and unemployment for the most vulnerable. Local Community Development Councils buy the relief packages from local providers, thus helping create jobs and stimulate local economies. Eighty-year-old Bibi Sakina, a resident of Herat City in western Afghanistan, has been severely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Her 75-year-old husband, Hassan Haidari, has diabetes. He contracted COVID-19 when the virus peaked and was hospitalized for 18 days. Their despair turned to relief when they received a food package from their neighborhood Community Development Council (CDC) under Dastarkhwan-e-Meli, the Afghan government umbrella program that channels relief to poor Afgh The COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated food insecurity in vulnerable communities across Afghanistan. Preventive measures, such as lockdowns, have caused border closures, disrupted productive activities, and drove down consumption. . According to the United Nations , nearly 12 million Afghan citizens face acute food insecurity and lack access to stable jobs and income Bakhtiar, 25, a resident of Mandozai village in Mehtarlam, the provincial capital of Laghman, and a daily-wage worker, is among the vulnerable thousands who have been hit hard by COVID-19. "Most people in our village are already poor and they supported their families with daily jobs," he says. "In my case, our entire family contracted COVID-19, so we couldn't work and now we face economic difficulties." Bakhtiar is thankful to Dastarkhwan-e-Meli, which gave his household a relief package. "It has satisfied our hunger by providing us with some essential food items, such as rice, flour, oil, [and] red beans for some time," he says. "It was very hard to afford even a bag of rice and a can of cooking oil. Dastarkhwan-e Meli has met some of our most pressing needs." Bibi Sakina, resident, Herat City, Herat province Supported by the World Bank and ARTF the Dasterkhwan-e-Mili program will provide relife packages to five million Afghan householdes who have $2 or less income per day. World Bank Addressing food insecurity and unemployment The Afghan government rolled out Dastarkhwan-e Meli to alleviate hunger and unemployment among the country's most vulnerable communities. The program is funded by the COVID-19 Relief Effort for Afghan Communities and Households (REACH) and the Citizens' Charter Afghanistan Project (CCAP) . REACH complements CCAP efforts by providing critical food and economic support to needy households in target communities that account for two-thirds of the Afghan population. CCAP initiatives cover the remaining one-third. By May 2021, nearly 750,000 households had received relief packages under the program. Program resources are channeled directly through CDCs, which purchase relief packages from local providers to create jobs and stimulate local economies. The relief package provides 2–3 weeks of rations to Afghan families when most needed. Each package, with a value of 4,000 afghanis (about $52),* contains essentials such as cooking oil, rice, beans, flour, peas, and soap. Abdul Hadi, 28, another resident of Mandozai village and also a daily-wage worker, has eight children and is also responsible for his brother's widow and her five children. He says that the relief packages helped save their lives at a critical time. "We cannot find any job due to the coronavirus pandemic these days," he says. "We slept on empty stomachs several nights. Both my and my sister-in-law's family received relief packages." Three government agencies implement Dastarkhwan-e Meli. ; the Independent Directorate for Local Governance covers around 450,000 households in 14 provincial capitals; Kabul Municipality covers about 630,000 households in Kabul City. Relief packages under Afghanistan Citizen's Charter Program are managed and distributed through Community Development Councils (CDCs) which have ensured public ownership and transparency. Photo credit: World Bank Challenges ahead Undertaking such a massive relief effort during a pandemic is complex. CDCs face delays in distributing assistance as social distancing measures make it more challenging to reach people. Dastarkhwan-e Meli has set up a dedicated grievance redressal mechanism to address people's complaints and investigate allegations of corruption or abuse related to the project. This work helps ensure the transparent and proper use of resources and the successful delivery of the food and hygiene packages to families in need, Awareness about this mechanism has been raised among the public through public service announcements on TV, radio, and social media that discourage instances of corruption. CCAP and REACH are supported by the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund, a multi-donor trust fund managed by the World Bank on behalf of 34 donors, and the International Development Association, the World Bank Group's fund for the poorest countries. *U.S.dollar equivalent is based on the exchange rate $1 = 77.68 afghanis (February 2021) RELATED WORLD BANK Project Documents World Bank in Afghanistan World Bank Afghanistan on Facebook World Bank South Asia on Twitter External Resources: Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF) Dastarkhwan-e Meli Api Api Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->