Generating Power and Jobs: World Bank Study Outlines Potential of Concentrated Solar Power in India --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Generating Power and Jobs: World Bank Study Outlines Potential of Concentrated Solar Power in India October 30, 2013 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> STORY HIGHLIGHTS World Bank report outlines options to develop India's solar power industry Incentives could cut cost of solar components by 40%, create thousands of jobs "Great potential for concentrated solar power in India," says Joint Secretary for New and Renewable Energy Concentrated Solar Power (CSP) holds out the promise of stable, clean and locally-sourced power for countries with abundant sunlight. CSP has the added advantage of being able to dispatch a sizeable amount of power to the national grid as needed. The major drawback has been cost. In contrast to widespread solar photovoltaic (PV) technology, CSP is still not mature enough to deliver electricity at competitive prices resulting from economies of scale. A new World Bank report offers grounds to believe that this obstacle can be removed, at least in one sunny country with a very large market: India . The study, Development of Local Supply Chain: A Critical Link for Concentrated Solar Power in India , demonstrates that India has great potential to manufacture its own components for CSP, given the right policy incentives, public support for demonstration CSP plants, and increased investment in research and development. This could give birth to a new industry, serving domestic and international markets. It could lower the costs of some components by up to 40 percent. And it could create thousands of new jobs. The study supports work being done under the Government of India’s Jawaharlal Nehru National Solar Mission (JNNSM), launched in early 2010 with a goal of building out 20 gigawatts (GW) of grid-connected solar power by 2022. Achieving that goal, by itself, would add 20 percent to currently installed worldwide solar capacity. Another goal is to reduce the price of solar-generated power to grid parity levels through policy changes, research and development, and domestic production of materials. " Project implementation until now has been held back by a lack of experience with the technology. However, if we can overcome this, there is great potential for CSP in India. " Tarun Kapoor Joint Secretary of the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE), Government of India To achieve these goals, India needs to build domestic capacity to supply its own CSP components rather than import most of them, as is now the case. In addition to its energy benefits, such local manufacturing would also boost India’s economic growth. India has already brought down the cost of solar power substantially through the first phase bidding under the JNNSM, which was conducted under a reverse auction model. The World Bank report estimates that with local manufacturing of components, the cost of CSP components in India could fall by 15-30 percent from present levels. It argues that with the right support, this local supply chain could be up and running in 4-7 years. The study was carried out by the World Bank’s South Asia Sustainable Development Department and financed by the Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP). "Project implementation until now has been held back by a lack of experience with the technology," said Tarun Kapoor, Joint Secretary of the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE), who heads the implementation of grid-connected solar power for the JNNSM. "However, if we can overcome this, there is great potential for CSP in India." A similar ESMAP study on CSP manufacturing potential in the Middle East and North Africa region conducted in 2010 was widely disseminated and used to develop enabling policies for the scale-up of CSP in Morocco. It was instrumental in the World Bank’s support – through loans totaling almost US$300 million -- for the 500 megawatt (MW) Ouarzazate I complex in Morocco , among the largest CSP plants in the world. The starting point of the present study was a detailed analysis of the capability of industries in India to develop CSP technologies and manufacture critical components. The conclusion was that most components could be manufactured in India in the near- to medium-term. These included turbines, drive systems, and parabolic trough mirrors. Some policy adjustments would be required, like lowering the customs duties on low-iron sand required to manufacture the mirrors. More fundamentally, Indian industries would need to be engaged and actively participate in developing this new market. The study identifies a number of existing industries that could find opportunities in CSP component manufacturing, including automotive, glass, metal, electronics, chemical and machine tool companies. Moving forward, to meet the challenge of international competition, research and development, and collaboration between companies and R&D labs, would need to be increased to develop cheaper and more efficient components. The study estimates that if local design and intellectual property are brought into these new supply chains, the cost of some CSP components could drop by as much as 40 percent. The report estimates that starting up local manufacturing for most CSP components would require less than 500 MW/year of demand. However, certain components, such as receiver tubes and tracking devices, would require significant initial R&D or a licensing agreement with international manufacturers. The report also analyzed the domestic economic benefits of CSP manufacturing for India, laying out “pessimistic”, “moderate” and “optimistic” scenarios. The moderate scenario estimates 6,000 MW of installed CSP capacity by 2022, creating around 60,000 jobs. Two workshops were conducted as part of the study, which brought together representatives from industry and government to discuss how a CSP market could be kick-started in India. These workshops resulted in a number of recommendations that are reflected in the report, including support for demonstration plants using hybrid and new technologies, quality standards for locally-produced components, and incentives for companies investing in R&D in this area. The report was presented to government officials in New Delhi on September 27, 2013, at an event headed by Joint Secretary Kapoor and the World Bank Country Director for India, Onno Ruhl. RELATED WORLD BANK Study : Development of Local Supply Chain: A Critical Link for Concentrated Solar Power in India (Executive Summary) Study : Development of Local Supply Chain, The Missing Link for Concentrated Solar Power Projects in India Press Release : Paving the Way for Solar Thermal Power in Egypt Press Release : World Bank Supports Morocco's Bold Solar Power Plans Report : Concentrating solar power in developing countries : regulatory and financial incentives for scaling up Blog : Is Concentrated Solar Thermal Making Progress in Developing Countries? Website : Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP) Website : World Bank Energy MULTIMEDIA Video VIDEO Morocco Takes Solar Lead India South Asia Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.