One Light Bulb at a Time, Mexico Achieves a Guinness Record --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY One Light Bulb at a Time, Mexico Achieves a Guinness Record August 1, 2012 This page in: English Español Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> STORY HIGHLIGHTS Mexico entered the Guinness Book of Records for having distributed for free 22.9 million energy-saving light bulbs In the first stage of the program, partially financed by the World Bank, there were more than 1,110 points of exchange in the whole country. With the already replaced light bulbs, the saving is calculated to be 1,400 gigawatt hour (Gwh), or the energy consumed in a year in Nayarit or Colima. The “Sustainable Light” ("Luz Sustentable") program of the Mexican government entered the Guinness Book of Records for having replaced 22.9 million incandescent light bulbs with compact fluorescent or “energy-saving” ones. In total, more than 5.5 million Mexican families already use energy-saving lamps that consume only 20% of the energy and last 10 times longer than a traditional light bulb. In the first stage of the program, partially financed by the World Bank, there were more than 1,110 points of exchange in the whole country. To obtain four energy-saving lamps for free, it was only necessary to present four incandescent light bulbs, an electricity bill and an ID. With the already replaced light bulbs, the saving is calculated to be 1,400 gigawatt hour (Gwh), in other words the energy that is consumed in a year in Nayarit or Colima. According to calculations by the Energy Ministry, the program also has an impact on the budget at home, as a family can save up to 18% of the electric bill. María Elena Nogueda, 65, is an architect and she has changed her light bulbs to save energy and money. “ My sister-in-law did it because I told her to and (the electricity bill) went down 40%,” she explained. Reduce emissions Less consumption of electricity also favors the environment, as an emission of about 700,000 tons of CO2 is being avoided with the light bulbs that have been replaced until now, the equivalent of more than 130,000 cars. In its second stage, the program hopes to replace other almost 23 millions of incandescent bulbs with energy-saving lamps. This time, families that have not yet participated will receive eight energy-saving light bulbs in exchange of four normal ones. Those who already have participated in the first stage will receive four additional energy-saving light bulbs. When the second stage ends, it is estimated that the saving will be of 2,800 Gwh per year, more than double the electricity consumption of the State of Campeche in 2011. RELATED WORLD BANK Mexico - Home Project - Mexico: Efficient Lighting EXTERNAL "Luz Sustentable" Program (sp) Mexico Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.