Event | Strengthening Fiscal Ecosystems for Accountability and Equity Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Strengthening Fiscal Ecosystems for Accountability and Equity Share Join the Event Meeting number: 2304 115 2527 Password: axUpQyCi693 Overview Speakers Agenda On the margins of the Reimagining Public Finance Global Conference (RPF) , this side session will examine a powerful means for making public finance reforms succeed. The session will center on how a fiscal ecosystems approach can help make change happen more effectively, and make public finance more inclusive, accountable, and equitable. The session will be based on findings from a high-level dialogue to be held in Switzerland the week before RPF. That dialogue will bring together 30 leaders from ministries of finance, oversight bodies, civil society, academia, and international institutions. Participants in the RPF-adjacent session will look at the web of actors that together determine public finance outcomes, including legislatures, supreme audit institutions, civil society, academia, media, courts, and donors. Participants will discuss, concretely, how to recognize and tackle the institutional, relational, and political challenges that have historically undermined attempts at public financial management reform. The discussion will focus on how relationship-building, power-shifting, and collaboration across the entire fiscal ecosystem is required to make real change. Serdar Yilmaz Practice Manager, Public Finance and Procurement Unit, World Bank Serdar Yilmaz is the Practice Manager for the Public Finance and Procurement Unit at the World Bank. He has broad experience in the related areas of fiscal decentralization, public expenditure management, subnational governance, and governmental accountability. Throughout his twenty-five year tenure at the World Bank, he has provided technical assistance and contributed to policy reforms in low and middle-income countries in Africa, Eastern Europe and Central Asia, the Middle East and East Asia regions. In addition to his task management responsibilities, Serdar makes original contributions to the literature. Serdar holds a Ph.D. in Public Policy from George Mason University. Ana Patricia Muñoz Executive Director, International Budget Partnership Ana Patricia Muñoz is the International Budget Partnership (IBP)´s Executive Director. IBP´s goal is to make sure governments raise and spend public money more fairly, so that everyone has the resources and opportunities they need to thrive and get ahead. To achieve this, IBP works with budget analysts, civil society organizations, social movements, multilateral and international institutions, and partners in 120 countries. Previously, Ana Patricia was the Executive Director of FARO, an Ecuadorian think tank that generates research and implements initiatives to influence public policy and build a more equitable and sustainable society. She spent a decade at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, where she rose through the ranks to become Assistant Vice President. She spearheaded ground-breaking research and produced a seminal report on the racial wealth gap. Ana Patricia has written more than 20 research reports, book chapters, and academic journal articles. She holds a Master’s degree in Public Affairs from Brown University, a Master’s degree in Economics from the University of Montreal and a Bachelor’s degree in Economics from the Pontificia Universidad Católica del Ecuador. Vishal Gujadhur Deputy Director, Development Policy & Finance Team, Global Policy & Advocacy Division, Gates Foundation Vishal Gujadhur oversees domestic public finance for the Development Policy and Finance team and is based in the foundation’s Washington, D.C., office. He leads a group that addresses how countries raise, spend, and allocate resources—and how they approach debt, planning and budgeting, and digital public finance. Before joining the foundation, Vishal worked at Standard Chartered Bank. He helped establish the bank’s public sector group, which provides advisory services and financing solutions to entities such as developing country ministries of finance, central banks, and multilateral development banks. Earlier, he worked in Liberia as an advisor to the finance minister, at the U.S. Treasury’s Office of International Affairs as an international economist, with the People’s Bank of China, and at the Federal Reserve in Washington, D.C. He has an MPA in international development from Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government and a B.A. in economics from Wesleyan University. Chiara Bronchi Practice Manager, Public Institutions Data and Analytics Unit, Global Department, World Bank Chiara Bronchi is the Practice Manager for the Public Institutions Data and Analytics Unit in the Institutions Global Department of the World Bank Group. She leads a group of public sector economists, political and data scientists, who are building an innovative analytical and quantitative approach for assessing state capacity for a sustainable and inclusive development. Chiara has over 30 years of professional experience in economics and development gained at the World Bank and other international organizations including the ADB, IMF and the OECD. She has published on taxation and public spending, service delivery, and institution capacity. Chiara holds a PhD in economics from Bologna University and a MSc in economics from University College of London. Paolo de Renzio Senior Adjunct Professor, Escola Brasileira de Administração de Empresas of Fundação Getulio Vargas (FGV EBAPE) Paolo de Renzio is a public finance practitioner and scholar, and Senior Adjunct Professor at the Escola Brasileira de Administração Pública e de Empresas of Fundação Getulio Vargas (FGV EBAPE) since April 2023. Paolo also holds a regular visiting faculty position at the London School of Economics and Political Science and is a consultant with the World Bank on public finance matters. Previously, he was Senior Research Fellow at the International Budget Partnership (IBP) in Washington, DC, where he coordinated research on fiscal policy, governance, and development, and visiting faculty at the Harvard Kennedy School. He also worked in the Ministry of Finance of Papua New Guinea, with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Mozambique and as a Research Fellow at the Overseas Development Institute in London, and has extensive consulting experience with international institutions, governments, and non-governmental organizations. He spent the 2021/22 academic year as a Policy Fellow at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences (CASBS) at Stanford University. His research has been published in various academic journals, and he has co-edited a book called “Open Budgets: The Political Economy of Transparency, Participation and Accountability” (Brookings Press 2013). Philippe Brüegger Program Manager, Macroeconomic Support Section, Swiss State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO) Philippe Brüegger is a Program Manager in the Macroeconomic Support Section at the Swiss State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO). He oversees development programs aimed at strengthening financial sector development and public financial management, particularly in Ukraine and Indonesia. Mr. Brüegger also leads SECO's work on FinTech and digital asset regulation. He holds a Master's degree in Economics and Behavioral Economics from the University of Zurich. His expertise includes designing and implementing programs that enhance economic governance and financial stability in partner countries. Matt Davies Head, Global Public Finance Partnership, IMF Matt Davies is currently head of the Global Public Finance Partnership in the IMF’s Fiscal Affairs Department. Prior to this role he led the work on the IMF’s five-yearly CD Strategy Review that was approved by the Board in April 2024. He has worked in the IMF for 24 years working mainly on low income and fragile countries including as mission chief for Myanmar and Tonga and as director of the Fund’s technical assistance center in the Pacific (PFTAC). Prior to joining the Fund, Matt worked in the UK’s Department for International Development and the Papua New Guinea Ministry of Finance and Planning. Warren Krafchik Project Leader, Fiscal Ecosystems Initiative, Trust, Accountability, and Inclusion Collaborative Warren Krafchik is the project leader for the Fiscal Ecosystems Initiative at the Trust, Accountability, and Inclusion Collaborative. He was the founding Executive Director of the International Budget Partnership (IBP). He was also a co-founder and the first civil society co-chair of the Open Government Partnership (OGP); and co-founder of the Global Initiative for Fiscal Transparency (GIFT.) Prior to IBP, he worked at the Institute for Democracy in South Africa (IDASA) and as a lecturer at the School of Economics at the University of Cape Town. He is a South African economist and has worked in the fields of macro-economics, public finance, and governance for the past 30 years. 09:00 - 09:05 Opening Remarks Serdar Yilmaz, Practice Manager, World Bank 09:05 -09:25 Why a Fiscal Ecosystems Approach? Key Findings and Action Plan Philippe Brüegger, SECO Warren Krafchik, Trust, Accountability, and Inclusion Collaborative 09:25 -10:00 Panel Discussion Moderator: Paolo de Renzio, FGV EBAPE Ana Patricia Muñoz, International Budget Partnership Vishal Gujadhur, Gates Foundation Chiara Bronchi, World Bank Matt Davies, IMF 10:00 - 10:20 General Discussion Open Floor 10:20 - 10:25 Reflections Philippe Brüegger, SECO 10:25 - 10:30 Closing Remarks Bunthoeun So, Financial Management Umbrella Program FAQs Do I need to register to attend the event? Yes. Please use the Sign Up button to register. This confirms your attendance for either the in-person event or access to the livestream. Once registered, you’ll receive an email with event access details, location or login instructions, and timely reminders. What happens if I miss the event? The event recording will be available on this page shortly after it concludes. If you registered via the Sign Up button, you’ll receive a follow-up email with a link to watch the replay and access any resources shared during the event. Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×