Event | Data-Driven Policies for Effective Governance in the Kyrgyz Republic Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Data-Driven Policies for Effective Governance in the Kyrgyz Republic Share OVERVIEW GALLERY PRESENTATIONS RELATED Evidence-based policymaking enhances transparency, accountability, and effective governance by ensuring decisions are guided by reliable data. This approach requires strong institutional capacity for data collection, analysis, and application in policymaking. The Effective Governance for Economic Development (EGED) , funded by the UK Government and implemented by the World Bank, supports the Kyrgyz Republic in strengthening economic policy effectiveness, transparency, and accountability. This program focuses on improving data generation and analysis, fostering evidence-based decision-making, enhancing government coordination, and promoting citizen engagement. As part of the EGED program, the World Bank has produced key analytical reports, including the Subnational Poverty Assessment , which examines regional poverty disparities, and Understanding Perceptions on Climate Change and Energy Transitions in Central Asia , which explores stakeholder views on climate and energy reforms. Additionally, the Listening to the Kyrgyz Republic survey monitors key wellbeing indicators, such as food security, labor market outcomes, remittances, access to services, and perceptions of economic conditions and governance. On April 3, 2025, EGED is hosting a roundtable in Bishkek to provide an opportunity to present findings from these reports and to exchange views on strengthening data-driven regional development policymaking. Officials from the World Bank and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic will join the discussion on improving the use of data in policy decisions at both national and local levels. This roundtable aims to inform stakeholders about EGED activities, coordinate efforts in the development sector, and explore more efficient ways to integrate data into policymaking for greater economic and social impact. Gallery Download Presentations: Listening to the Kyrgyz Republic, April 2025 Behavioral insights for climate in Kyrgyz Republic Climate strategy and projects Comprehensive planning for the socio-economic development of the regions of the Kyrgyz Republic, and the results of the administrative-territorial reform and governance reform in regional development SYNTHESIS NOTE: Towards Understanding Regional Development Dynamics in the Kyrgyz Republic AGENDA: Download the roundtable agenda WEBSITE: The World Bank in the Kyrgyz Republic Event Details Date: April 03, 2025 Time: 01:10 AM - 01:10 AM ET Location: Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×