Portfolio Partnership Fund for the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG Fund) Partnership Fund for the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG Fund) Home Overview Portfolio Partners Resources Results Our Portfolio MULTIMEDIA click WBG SDG Fund: Promoting Gender Diversity in Global Business Leadership from WBG SDG Fund on Vimeo . VIDEO Jul 01, 2020 Promoting Gender Diversity in Global Business Leadership IFC’s Women on Boards and in Business Leadership program advances the business case for more female representation on boards of emerging and frontier market companies and helps increase the number of qualified women aspiring to executive positions. click WBG SDG Fund: Improving Credit Access and Financial Inclusion of MSMEs from WBG SDG Fund on Vimeo . VIDEO Jul 01, 2020 Improving Credit Access and Financial Inclusion of MSMEs IFC's Global Financial Inclusion, Access and Infrastructure Group is promoting the digitalization of micro, small, and medium enterprises, and improving access to finance for marginalized communities. A pilot in South Africa encourages the use of alternative data for credit reporting. click SDG Fund: A Data-Driven Exploration of SDG Monitoring and Implementation from WBG SDG Fund on Vimeo . VIDEO Jul 01, 2020 A Data-Driven Exploration of SDG Monitoring and Implementation Through data-based analysis the World Bank's Development Data Group supports policy makers and the public to better understand how SDGs are being monitored, and how investments are being implemented for the global goals. click WBG SDG Fund: Investing in the Economic Integration of Refugees from WBG SDG Fund on Vimeo . VIDEO Jul 01, 2020 Investing in the Economic Integration of Refugees The World Bank's Investment Matching Platform for Refugee Communities in Jordan is building a strong network of donors and implementing partners who all seek to enable opportunities for host communities and refugees to promote peace and stability. Project Portfolio 2022 The SDG Fund prioritizes activities that generate knowledge products for the SDGs; develop data and statistics related to the SDGs; and create global tools, methodologies, or products for SDG implementation. Current Projects Arrow Project Portfolio 2021 The SDG Fund prioritizes activities that generate knowledge products for the SDGs; develop data and statistics related to the SDGs; and create global tools, methodologies, or products for SDG implementation. Current Projects Arrow Project Portfolio 2020 The SDG Fund prioritizes activities that generate knowledge products for the SDGs; develop data and statistics related to the SDGs; and create global tools, methodologies, or products for SDG implementation. Past Projects Arrow Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->