A Pioneering Path: How Côte d’Ivoire is Reshaping Debt Management to Invest in Human Capital Who We Are News This page in: English Français This page in: English Français FEATURE STORY December 5, 2024 A Pioneering Path: How Côte d’Ivoire is Reshaping Debt Management to Invest in Human Capital Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Before the Covid-19 pandemic swept across the globe, Côte d’Ivoire stood out as one of Africa’s fastest-growing economies. From 2012 to 2019, the nation boasted an annual growth rate of 8%, fueled by sound economic policies and a period of relative political stability. The benefits were tangible: poverty rates fell from 44% to 39.5%, and the country made strides in education and health, increasing its Human Capital Index (HCI) score from 0.30 to 0.38 over the past decade. However, these national achievements often contrast sharply with the realities in rural areas. Take Assoum 2, a small village nestled in the far northeastern corner of the country, near the border with Burkina Faso. For years, children attended classes in a cramped and deteriorating three-room school building. That changed recently with the inauguration of a new four-classroom building, a preschool, and latrines. To build on progress in places like Assoum 2 and tackle broader national challenges, Côte d’Ivoire is launching an innovative debt-for-development swap supported by the World Bank Group. This new initiative will enable the country to swap existing, costly debt for a loan with better terms. The savings will be reinvested in the construction of over 30 schools, easing fiscal pressures while improving access to education. This operation will save Côte d’Ivoire €60 million, which we will use to build schools for 30,000 additional students," said Adama Coulibaly, the Minister of Finance and Budget. "We are proud to be the first country to leverage this framework, reflecting our commitment to finding creative solutions that enhance the well-being of our citizens while contributing to a healthier planet. Tackling a Daunting Challenge Nationwide, only one in ten children in Côte d’Ivoire has access to preschool—far below the Sub-Saharan African average of 28%. While gender parity exists in enrollment, stark inequalities remain between urban and rural communities. Urban areas dominate preschool access, hosting 62% of facilities and enrolling 74% of children. The pressures on Côte d’Ivoire’s education system are immense, driven by a population that grows at 2.6% annually. The government’s 2015 policy mandating compulsory education for children aged 6 to 16 has further amplified the demand for schools, classrooms, teachers, and basic facilities. In response, the government partnered with the World Bank in 2022 on a $350-million Education Sector Program for Development, prioritizing efficiency and regional equity. Progress in Assoum 2 shows what could be possible in the rest of the country. Students play in front of the recently constructed classrooms at Assoum II Primary School in Côte d'Ivoire. This new school building, funded by a World Bank-supported initiative, is part of a broader effort to improve access to quality education in rural communities. Hien Sié/World Bank. Since the construction of new buildings, our teaching and learning conditions have significantly improved, and this has had a direct impact on the students' performance," said Dimi Blé, the school’s headmaster. "Now, all students from first to third grade can read proficiently, count from 0 to 100, and perform basic calculations, while the national average ranges between 0 and 20. Enrollment at the school has also surged from 136 to 290 students. The opening of the preschool has been a great relief for us parents because we now have a safe place to leave our young children while we work in the fields," said Evariste Pooda, president of the school’s management committee. "As farmers, it also reassures us to know that our children are learning something there. The Assoum II Primary School building and preschool stand as a beacon of hope for the village community, providing a safe and welcoming environment for nearly 300 children to learn and thrive. Hien Sié/World Bank The hope is that the new debt-swap operation will enable the country to meet its growing education demand by freeing up fiscal space to invest in schools. The swap is also part of a broader strategy to improve fiscal resilience and strengthen Côte d’Ivoire’s debt profile. Enabled by a €500 million policy-based guarantee, half of this amount will support the debt swap, while the remainder will secure a Sustainability Linked-Loan to attract environmentally and socially conscious investors. The dual approach not only reduces the debt burden of the country but also creates long-term financial sustainability. These efforts are more than just policies: they are investments in the future of Côte d’Ivoire,” Marie-Chantal Uwanyiligira, World Bank Country Director for Cote d’Ivoire, emphasized. “By linking debt sustainability with tangible development outcomes, we are proving that it is possible to balance fiscal responsibility with social progress. Through bold policies and innovative financial tools, Côte d’Ivoire is transforming its debt into a vehicle for opportunity— setting a precedent that could inspire other nations across the continent. RELATED Campaign: Swapping debt for development The World Bank in Côte d'Ivoire Debt at the World Bank Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×