Event | Governing the Global Hydrological Cycle: Where Do We Stand Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Governing the Global Hydrological Cycle: Where Do We Stand Share Overview The hydrological cycle transcends local and national boundaries, connecting us all. It is essential for regulating freshwater availability for economies, ecosystems, and societies. The changing climate is severely disrupting the hydrological cycle by exacerbating the frequency and severity of storms, floods, and droughts, contributing to the “triple planetary crisis” at a time when relative water scarcity is increasing due to escalating water demand from growing pollution and expanding economies. The hydrological cycle remains largely unregulated under international law, despite its interconnected nature and significance in achieving sustainable development goals related to water. Various legal regimes govern distinct aspects of the hydrological cycle, without fully accounting for its links to land management, ecosystems, and climate change. This session will analyze gaps and contribute to a deeper understanding of the governance regime of the global hydrological cycle. Panelists will discuss legal and policy pathways and challenges to move to a more comprehensive regulatory regime to achieve water security and secure freshwater availability for economies, ecosystems, and societies. Speakers: Richard Damania , Chief Economist, Planet Vice Presidency, World Bank Group Ana Maria Daza-Clark , Associate Professor in International Economic Law, Edinburgh Law School Saroj Kumar Jha , Global Director, Water Global Practice, World Bank Group Owen McIntyre , Professor, School of Law, University College Cork Raphael Tshimanga , Professor, University of Kinshasa Moderator: Christina Leb , Lead Water Specialist, World Bank Return to the main LJD Week event website here . Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×