Event | Advancing resilience through data sharing Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Advancing resilience through data sharing Share OVERVIEW AGENDA RELATED As environmental, social, and economic crises multiply globally, resilience has become a survival imperative, especially in East Asia and the Pacific, where countries face mounting threats from extreme weather and rising seas, to food insecurity and public health emergencies. Addressing these complex challenges requires coordinated, data-driven responses that enable governments and institutions to act quickly and strategically. The roundtable will explore how shared data platforms can enhance resilience, with a focus on real-world examples and actionable roadmaps. The Republic of Korea, with its advanced digital infrastructure, sound governance systems, and leadership in regional development cooperation, is uniquely positioned to support the development and scaling of shared data platforms for resilience. The roundtable will highlight five key pillars essential to building effective shared data platforms and explore how Korea’s own experience and innovations in these areas can inform and inspire scalable solutions across the region. Date: May 29, 2025 TIME: 9:00 to 15:30 (KST) Korea Digital Development team Time Session 09:00 – 09:30 Welcome and Opening Remarks Speakers: Jason M. Allford , Country Manager, World Bank Group - Korea Office Hyoung Gun Wang , Program Manager, Korea Green Growth Trust Fund (KGGTF) Joung Won Yoo , Director, National Information Society Agency (NIA) 09:30 – 10:30 Session 1: Role of Shared Data in Building Resilience This opening session will set the stage by highlighting why shared data is central to resilience-building efforts. It will explore how governments and institutions are leveraging integrated data systems to better understand risks, inform policy, and respond to complex shocks across sectors. Speakers: Yoo Joungwon , Director, National Information Society Agency (NIA) Kim Jungwook , Director/Head of the Center, Korea Development Institute (KDI) Seth Ayers , Senior Digital Specialist, Co-Lead Green Digital team, World Bank 10:30 – 11:00 Coffee Break 11:00 – 12:00 Session 2: Enablers of Effective Shared Data Platforms – Governance, Technology, and Partnerships This session will dive into the institutional and technical conditions needed to establish sustainable shared data ecosystems. It will address governance models, data policy, infrastructure, and the importance of inter-agency and multi-stakeholder collaboration. Speakers: Yeo Joonho , Researcher, Policy Research, Center for Institutional Innovation, National Institute of Green Technology (NIGT) Kim Jinseok , Director, National Climate Data Center, Korea Meteorological Administration (KMA) Choi Joo-ohk , Executive Principal, National Information Society Agency (NIA) Kim Sujung , Director, Data Promotion Division, Ministry of Science ICT (MSIT) 12:00 – 13:00 Lunch Break 13:00 – 14:00 Session 3: Roadmaps for Action – Scaling Shared Data Systems in East Asia and beyond This session will focus on co-developing pathways to scale shared data platforms. It will include discussions to map national and regional needs and opportunities and identify priority areas for action. Speakers: H.E. Mohamed Kinaanath , Minister of State for Homeland Security and Technology (Head of the National Centre for Information Technology; National Cybersecurity Agency and Communication Authority of Maldives) – Virtual Seth Ayers , Senior Digital Specialist, World Bank Aditya Agrawal , Founder, D4D and Consultant, World Bank 14:00 – 15:00 Session 4: Fostering Collaboration and Stakeholder Engagement This session will explore strategies to build inclusive and durable partnerships for scaling shared data initiatives. It will emphasize how governments, civil society, academia, and the private sector can work together to ensure sustainability and user-centered design. Speakers: Baek Dongyub , Executive Principal, National Information Society Agency (NIA) Kim Jeawon , Capacity Building and Network Engagement Specialist, UN Climate Technology Centre and Network Sameer Akbar , Senior Environmental Specialist, World Bank Chris Ziegler , Policy Specialist, UNDP Seoul Policy Center Moderated by Zaki B. Khoury , Senior Digital Specialist and TTL, Korea Digital Development Program (KoDi), World Bank Group Korea Office 15:00 – 15:30 Closing Session and Next Steps Korea Digital Development Program World Bank in Korea Event Details Date: May 29, 2025 Time: 09:00 AM - 03:30 PM ET In-Person: Watch the replay Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×