Navigating a Challenging Recovery in the Philippines (Philippines Economic Update June 2021) Where We Work Philippines publication June 14, 2021 Navigating a Challenging Recovery in the Philippines (Philippines Economic Update June 2021) Email Print Tweet Share Share LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> STORY HIGHLIGHTS The resurgence of COVID 19 cases and the reimposition of stringent quarantine measures held back early signs of an economic rebound. The economy is expected to recover over the forecast horizon, but there are significant downside risks. The key policy challenges are to manage the pandemic, effectively deliver social protection, and mobilize private sector participation in the recovery. Recent Economic and Policy Developments The economy remained in recession, contracting by 4.2% year-on-year in the first quarter of 2021. The growth contraction was fueled by weak domestic demand, driven by the combination of containment measures, weak confidence, and rising inflation. Meanwhile, tepid external demand was driven by the sharp contraction in services exports amid lingering restrictions and weak demand for international tourism while goods exports recovered. The public sector was the main driver of growth with an expansionary budget. The impact of the recession is broad-based, affecting all sectors, i.e. industry, construction, manufacturing, services, trade, transportation, accommodation and food services. The Central Bank of the Philippines (Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas) maintained its key policy rate at 2.0% throughout the first four months of 2021 to support the economic recovery. The authorities also accelerated public spending. Stimulus spending and infrastructure investment drove public spending from 19.1% of GDP in the first quarter of 2020 to 23.4% of GDP in the same period in 2021. The unemployment rate decreased to 7.1% in March 2021 after remaining steady at 8.7-8.8% in the past five months. Outlook and Risks The growth prospects hinge on the country’s ability to manage the COVID-19 health crisis. The economy is projected to expand at 4.7% in 2021, before accelerating to 5.9% in 2022 and 6.0% in 2023. The economic recovery will contribute to renewed progress in poverty reduction. Growth prospects are subject to significant downside risks. A resurgence of infection due to the entry of new virus variants is the most significant risk, which may yet overwhelm the healthcare system. Ineffectively containing the virus or implementing the mass vaccination program may extend mobility restrictions, which could lead to further job and income losses, disrupt businesses, and delay economic recovery. External risks include a slower-than-expected global recovery, disruptions in international logistics and global value chains, and trade protectionism. Policy Recommendations The key health policy response remains the management of the virus and roll out of the vaccination program. Effectively delivering social protection programs will help reduce the extent to which the crisis adversely affects long term human capital accumulation. Mobilizing greater private sector participation in public infrastructure projects will be important as the government faces limited fiscal space in the short term. Relaxing restrictions on FDI is expected to boost the economic recovery. Special Focus on Subnational Finance Local governments have played a crucial role at the front lines of the COVID crisis. A current lack of resources prevents local government units (LGUs) from fulfilling their devolved mandates. The Mandanas Ruling that will be implemented in 2022 is the first step towards strengthening decentralization and improving local service delivery. Large disparities in LGUs’ financial resources have led to persistent inequalities across LGUs. Implementation challenges can be addressed successfully through improved coordination and strategic planning and budgeting. Addressing the structural challenges of decentralization requires a long-term investment in designing institutional arrangements that will ensure the success of decentralization. Policy Recommendations for the implementation of the Mandanas Ruling Short-term Clearly define, communicate, and coordinate the re devolution of functions. Minimize inefficient allocation of LGU budgets by focusing on implementation ready programs and projects. Medium-term Support capacity building in local government units. Reduce inequality by re devolving gradually and targeting national government support toward disadvantaged LGUs. Strengthen systems of monitoring and evaluation within government. Long-term Amend the Local Government Code to address fundamental challenges towards effective service delivery. Strengthen demand for transparency and accountability. MULTIMEDIA click June 10, 2021 Report Launch Replay RELATED WORLD BANK [FULL REPORT] Philippines Economic Update June 2021: Navigating a Challenging Recovery [PRESS RELEASE] Manila, June 10, 2021-Mandanas Ruling Provides Opportunities for Improving Service Delivery Through Enhanced Decentralization [SLIDE PRESENTATION] Mandanas Ruling: An Opportunity for Effective Decentralization [SLIDE PRESENTATION] Philippines Economic Update June 2021: Navigating a Challenging Recovery Get past issues of the Philippines Economic Update Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->