Event | World Water Week 2025 Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events World Water Week 2025 Share OVERVIEW SESSIONS RELATED World Water Week 2025 is scheduled to take place from August 24 to 28 in Stockholm, Sweden, as well as online. The theme for this year’s event is "Water for Climate Action." Organized annually by the Stockholm International Water Institute (SIWI), the event highlights the vital importance of water in tackling climate change and advancing sustainability. The program will address all aspects of the water cycle, with a strong focus on protecting ecosystems, ensuring fairness, and promoting climate justice. Additionally, it will function as a key platform to connect conversations and initiatives related to water and climate, helping to drive momentum for various global efforts, including the upcoming UN Water Conference in 2026. Organized annually by the Stockholm International Water Institute (SIWI), World Water Week selects a singular theme to drive and reflect the global agenda. The event seeks to provide an inclusive and action-oriented platform and aims to attract individuals committed to leveraging water as a catalyst for positive change, promoting effective water cooperation, and advancing opportunities for transformative impact worldwide. Join us in one of the six seminar sessions, either in person or virtual. Come visit the booth or online in the virtual expo and meet some of our staff! Location: Online / Stockholm, Sweden Dates: August 24 - August 28, 2025 Programme Monday, August 25 Harnessing the Power of Water to Reduce Climate Risks in ECA Session ID 12199 On-site / Workshop 9:00-10:30 CET This session unveils World Bank’s analytics using AI, remote sensing, and ground data to assess climate change impacts on food production in 21 Europe and Central Asia countries. It highlights critical areas needing sustainable irrigation to tackle climate risks and safeguard global food security in key production regions. Tuesday, August 26 Resilient Prosperity for Small Island Developing States Session ID 112278 On-site and online 09:00-10:30 CET The UN SIDS conference 2024 agreed on a Renewed Declaration for Resilient Prosperity. Despite the international aspiration, progress is lacking. SIDS face unprecedented water challenges, which drive health disasters, threaten tourism, economic development and human prosperity. This session will present experiences and call for water security in SIDS. Watch the replay Financing climate adaptation and nature-based water infrastructure Session ID 12192 On-site and online 14:00-15:30 CET Climate change is driving increased demand for water infrastructure to combat growing drought and flood risks. How can this infrastructure be financed in cash-strapped developing economies? How can we create incentives for greater investment in green solutions? This event will showcase recent World Bank work on these questions. Watch the replay Water as a Tool to Address Fragility, Conflict, and Violence Session ID 12267 On-site and online / Talk show 16:00-16:20 CET Water serves as a catalyst and casualty in conflicts and is increasingly critical in climate change mitigation efforts. Envisioning a climate-secure future necessitates the foundation of a water-secure one. Join this session, where a transformative conversation will unfold, delving into the role water plays in fostering peace and human security. Watch the replay Wednesday, August 27 From Vicious to Virtuous: Pathways to Climate-Resilient Urban Sanitation Session ID 12196 On-site / Workshop 09:00-10:30 CET This session emphasizes the need for climate-resilient sanitation to enable a transition from climate vulnerability and high emissions to greater resilience and sustainability. Expert panels and World Café discussions will explore sanitation's role in improving environmental and public health, urban water resilience, and city livability. Thursday, August 28 Climate-Resilient Transboundary Groundwater Management in the Horn of Africa Session ID 12280 On-site and online 14:00-15:30 CET This session explores transboundary groundwater management as a pathway to climate resilience and peacebuilding in the Horn of Africa. Through interactive discussions and shared knowledge, it highlights cross-border and cross-sectoral collaboration to foster innovative, water-secured solutions for climate mitigation and adaptation, under the Fragility, Conflict, and Violence (FCV) context. Watch the replay World Water Week website Register for the event See the full program Frequently asked questions World Water Week 2024 World Water Week 2023 Event Details Date: August 24 - 28, 2025 ET Location: Stockholm, Sweden Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×