Increasing Regional Collaboration to Strengthen Health Systems across Central Africa Who We Are News This page in: English Français This page in: English Français PRESS RELEASE October 30, 2025 Increasing Regional Collaboration to Strengthen Health Systems across Central Africa Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Unlocking employment opportunities through regional investments that strengthen health security and promote inclusive job creation WASHINGTON, October 29, 2025 - The World Bank Board of Directors has approved the expansion to Central Africa of a transformative regional initiative that is helping to bolster health emergency preparedness and response across four countries. The third phase of the Health Security Program in Western and Central Africa (HeSP) is supported by $280 million in IDA grants and credits, in addition to a grant of $10 million from the Global Financing Facility for Women, Children and Adolescents (GFF). The project will deliver targeted support to Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Republic of Congo, and the Economic and Monetary Community of Central Africa (CEMAC) to support regional coordination. The Program aims to increase regional collaboration and strengthen health system capacities to prevent, detect, and respond to health emergencies, including epidemics, climate-related health shocks, and zoonotic diseases. It builds on lessons from past crises such as Ebola and COVID-19, and aligns with national health strategies and global commitments, including the Paris Agreement and the Sustainable Development Goals. The additional grant financing from the GFF will complement the program by supporting Cameroon to prevent disruptions in essential health services for women, children and adolescents and strengthen Primary Health Care resilience to shocks. “The region faces a convergence of challenges, including fragility, displacement, porous borders, and changing weather patterns, that heighten the risk of health emergencies and strain already fragile health systems ,” said Ms. Trina Haque, World Bank Regional Director for Human Development for Western and Central Africa . “ HeSP responds to these urgent needs by investing in surveillance, laboratory networks, and frontline health workers, while promoting inclusive and resilient service delivery. It will help countries move from reactive crisis response to proactive preparedness. ” Additionally, the Program will support the development of national and regional contingency plans, strengthen laboratory and surveillance systems, and expand training for health professionals, including women in epidemiology and veterinary sciences. It will also finance green and resilient health infrastructure, and promote One Health approaches that integrate human, animal, and environmental health. “HeSP is more than a health initiative: it’s a regional development engine,” said Marina Wes, Acting World Bank Regional Integration Director for Western and Central Africa . “ By fostering cross-border collaboration and harmonizing health systems, the program will generate positive spillovers in trade, mobility, and social cohesion. It will create thousands of jobs in health, logistics, and infrastructure, particularly for youth and women in underserved areas. ” Building on this vision, the Program will strengthen national and regional capacities by investing in a diverse health workforce, expanding laboratory and surveillance systems, and upgrading critical infrastructure. The program’s emphasis on gender inclusion and local engagement will ensure that employment opportunities reach frontline workers and communities most in need, while also reinforcing institutional resilience and protecting existing jobs across the region. HeSP is part of a broader multi-phase programmatic approach, with a total financing envelope of $688 million, covering 8 countries across West and Central Africa. Contacts: In Washington: Aby K. Touré , akonate@worldbank.org In Yaoundé: Odilia Hebga , ohebga@worldbank.org In Bangui: Emmanuel Dembassa , edembassakette@worldbankgroup.org In N'Djamena: Nako Madjiasra , nmadjiasra@worldbankgroup.org In Brazzaville: Franck Bitemo , fbitemo@worldbankgroup.org PRESS RELEASE NO: 2026/028/AFW RELATED Africa Regional Integration The World Bank in Western and Central Africa Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×