Will robots take our jobs? --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News Infographic Will robots take our jobs? January 28, 2016 This page in: English العربية Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> “The world of A.D. 2014 will have few routine jobs that cannot be done better by some machine than by any human being.” - Isaac Asimov, 1964 Automation has already replaced many jobs Industrial Robots Call Centers Government Services Retail Translations Paralegal Travel Agents Accounting Manufacturing 2/3 of all jobs could be susceptible to automation in developing countries in the coming decades. But barriers to adoption, low wages, and dependence on human dexterity will slow down this process. Loading data back adjusted (tech feasibility + adoption lags) unadjusted --> Taking on the automation challenge depends on: 1. Creating new jobs elsewhere in the economy 2. Updating skills 3. Using the social protection system to support dislocated workers RELATED WORLD BANK World Development Report 2016: Digital Dividends WDR 2016 Infographics WDR 2016 Videos Press Release Feature Story --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.