South-South Knowledge Exchange --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work Latin America and Caribbean BRIEF South-South Knowledge Exchange April 9, 2014 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> South-South cooperation and South-South Knowledge Exchange connects policy makers and development practitioners within and across countries to learn from each others' experiences and to identify workable development solutions and policies. This type of cooperation is also growing in the Latin America and the Caribbean Region of the World Bank as countries seek the lessons coming out of similar development contexts and others want to learn from the region's success stories. To better address this growing trend South-South Knowledge Exchange is embedded in lending projects and knowledge programs as part of the suite of financial, knowledge, and convening services the Bank's offers to its clients. The LAC Region is integrating knowledge exchange in Country and Sector strategies, and monitoring and reporting activities in a regional database. The Region also supports the capacity development of country-based knowledge hubs and finances exchanges through the WBI South South Facility. This database provides information about exchanges supported by the World Bank in the Latin America and the Caribbean Region. The information is organized by objective of the exchange, knowledge providing and receiving country, topic of interest, and results achieved. It also highlights the top knowledge delivering and receiving countries in the Region and the best institutions to deliver that knowledge. For information please contact lacsouthsouth@worldbank.org View South-South knowledge exchanges by topic: Agriculture and Rural Development Climate Change Disaster Risk Management Education Energy and Mining Finance Gender Governance and Anti-corruption Health and Other Social Services Industry and Trade Information and Communications Private Sector Public Administration, Law and Justice Transportation Urban Development Water, Sanitation and Flood Protection Latin America and Caribbean RELATED DATABASE See the full database of South-South Knowledge Exchange in Latin America and the Caribbean WEB SITE World Bank Institute South South Knowledge Exchange VIDEO Strengthening the Recognition of Indigenous Land Rights in Honduras --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.