Migration and Remittances in Europe and Central Asia --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work Europe and Central Asia brief BRIEF Migration and Remittances in Europe and Central Asia This page in: English Русский Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Overview Migration has grown in importance in the Europe and Central Asia (ECA) region over the last decade, with remittances increasingly contributing to foreign exchange earnings, economic growth, and poverty reduction throughout the region. Increasingly, a large share of the labor force in many Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) countries resides abroad. The economic contractions in Russia and Kazakhstan have therefore become the major source of concern to CIS countries, whose Governments are now seeking ways to cushion their economies from potential adverse effects. At the end of 2015, the cost of sending remittances to Eastern Europe and Central Asia (ECA) was 6.48, lower than the global average recorded at 7.37 percent for the same time period. The average for ECA is particularly low because most countries in the region receive remittances from Russia, which is a market with extremely low cost. The World Bank also monitors the cost of sending money to ECA countries, excluding Russia as a sending market: the average, excluding Russia, was recorded at 7.51 percent. Featured Reports Migration and Remittance Flows in Europe and Central Asia: Recent Trends and Outlook, 2013-2016 (2013) Migration and economic development in Kosovo (2011) Migration and Remittances in CIS Countries During the Global Economic Crisis (2010) Taking stock of recent migration flows in the European Union (2010) Migration, Labor Markets, and Integration of Migrants: An Overview for Europe (2008) Europe and Central Asia Report Remittance Prices Worldwide RELATED BLOG People Move - A Blog about Migration, Remittances and Development PUBLICATION Migration and Development Brief --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.