Tapping into the Technological Challenge to Improve the Future of Work in the Dominican Republic Who We Are News This page in: English Español This page in: English Español OPINION May 6, 2025 Tapping into the Technological Challenge to Improve the Future of Work in the Dominican Republic Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina By Alexandria Valerio, World Bank Resident Representative for the Dominican Republic First Published in Diario Libre From the introduction of agricultural and industrial machinery to computers and now artificial intelligence, technology has continuously transformed the nature of work. In the face of this global trend, the Dominican Republic has tremendous potential to ride the wave of technological progress and transform its labor market. According to the World Bank report " The Future of Work in Central America and the Dominican Republic ," automation can create new jobs—especially when it helps reduce costs and increase productivity, which in turn generates greater demand. Additionally, digital technologies are enabling new forms of work that benefit both employees and businesses. The Dominican Republic is not starting from scratch. The country has shown considerable economic growth, driven by increased labor productivity and significant structural transformation. The stage is set to capitalize on this moment of digital progress. However, challenges remain that could limit this potential. These include high levels of informality, a significant number of young people who are neither working nor studying (“ninis”), and persistent gender disparities in labor force participation. There is also a mismatch between the skills taught and those needed: nearly 40% of employers report difficulties filling vacancies due to a lack of technical skills or work experience. Adding to these challenges is the low adoption of technology: only 10% of Dominican workers use digital tools intensively, and just 13% participate in online gig work. Riding the wave of technological progress During the recent World Bank Spring Meetings, a powerful statistic emerged: globally, 1.2 billion young people will enter the labor market over the next decade, competing for only 420 million available jobs. In the Dominican Republic, as elsewhere, one thing is clear—when it comes to the future of work, if we don’t ride the wave of technological progress, we risk being left behind. This is a unique opportunity. At the World Bank, we are supporting the country in strengthening its workforce and protecting human capital through various initiatives. One such effort is the INSPIRE program, which aims to increase labor force participation among young beneficiaries of SUPÉRATE by 8 percentage points through technical training, apprenticeship programs, and entrepreneurship support—helping youth transition toward economic independence. In addition, the World Bank also collaborates closely with the Dominican academia through significant training programs for future jobs. Through a loan, we are also working to improve the health system and infrastructure to ensure people are healthy, thereby reducing absenteeism and boosting productivity. This contributes to a healthier, more prepared workforce capable of adapting to the evolving demands of the labor market. The World Bank report also recommends expanding access to digital technologies—especially for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs); strengthening education to include key digital skills; and adapting social protection systems to the realities of platform-based work, which is often temporary and lack adequate safety nets. Technological progress is not only redefining jobs—it is reshaping the world. The Dominican Republic has a golden opportunity to ride this wave and secure a more prosperous and inclusive future of work. Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×