Cities – Policies - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Back to updates Cities – Policies November 08, 2012 The data on Cities.Data.gov is brought together from many official government sites. The policies for the release of those data vary from one city to another. Below you can find the detailed policies and developer resources for each catalog in this collection. Albuquerque provides an open data policy and developer resources . Arvada provides an open data policy and developer resources . Austin provides an open data policy . Baltimore provides an open data policy and developer resources . Boulder provides an open data policy and developer resources . Castle Rock provides an open data policy and developer resources . Chicago provides an open data policy and developer resources . Denver provides an open data policy and developer resources . Honolulu provides an open data policy . Los Angeles provides an open data policy and developer resources . Louisville provides an open data policy . New York provides an open data policy and developer resources . Palo Alto provides an open data policy and developer resources . San Francisco provides an open data policy and developer resources . Seattle provides an open data policy and developer resources . Somerville provides an open data policy and developer resources . Want to add your city? Tweet us at @usdatagov or contact us About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov