Achieving Agricultural Transformation: Rwanda Leads the Way --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Achieving Agricultural Transformation: Rwanda Leads the Way June 9, 2015 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> A’Melody Lee / World Bank STORY HIGHLIGHTS Despite geographical and meteorological challenges, agricultural productivity is taking off in Rwanda. Strong agricultural performance is powering Rwanda’s economic growth, rising from 4.7% in 2013 to 7% in 2014. Sustainable land management projects are enabling Rwandan farmers to grow more crops, boosting income and food security. KIGALI, June 9, 2015 — Rwanda’s lush and undulating landscapes are some of the most picturesque in eastern Africa, covering about 85% of the land mass and earning it an evocative nickname: Land of a Thousand Hills. Agriculture is a mainstay of the Rwandan economy. Thanks to forward-looking policies, a farming-led transformation is sweeping across this landlocked country with a population of 12 million. " Rwanda’s experiences provide meaningful lessons on how a well-performing agriculture and food sector can make a sizeable dent in poverty " Severin Kodderitzsch Manager in the World Bank Agriculture Global Practice Strong agricultural performance is powering Rwanda’s economic growth, rising from 4.7% in 2013 to 7% in 2014. Between 2000 and 2012, GDP growth averaged 8.1% per year, largely led by agriculture. “Rwanda’s agricultural transformation marks a significant achievement in the country’s ongoing fight against poverty,” says Carolyn Turk, World Bank Country Manager. “We look forward to strengthening our collaboration in this vital sector of the Rwandan economy.” As is the case with tropical farming, Rwandan agriculture is largely rain-fed and time-honored cycles of planting and harvesting are subject to the vagaries of nature. While hillside agriculture makes for splendid scenery, farming the slopes is a toil, frequently pitting the will of farmers against erratic weather. Droughts can exact a heavy toll while heavy rainfall can wash away standing crops, erode soils, and damage hand-built terraces, pushing farmers deeper into poverty. The World Bank, along with partners like the Global Agriculture and Food Security Program (GAFSP ), is financing ongoing strategic projects worth $265 million – on land husbandry, water harvesting and hillside irrigation, rural sector support, and value chain development in the agriculture and livestock sectors – all of which are delivering solid results. For example, a sustainable land management project is helping to boost agricultural productivity on hillsides by using a modified watershed approach to control erosion. The project aims to help farmers fight erosion on nearly 20,000 hectares in 12 districts including Karongi, Nyanza and Gatsibo, and provides reliable irrigation on 2,368 hectares. The project is also helping farmers to grow snow peas for sale in international markets. Rwanda’s agricultural transformation has made farmers more optimistic about the future. “Previously, people were abandoning farming to find alternative forms of income,” said Elias, a potato farmer in Karongi. “But now, everyone is resuming farming again.” The Rugeramigozi marshland in the Southern Province offers a vivid example of how assured irrigation is having transformational impact. Here, the rural sector support project financed construction of a small dam with a storage capacity of 260,000 cubic meters. Then, Rugeramigozi farmers grouped themselves into a cooperative, registered it as a legal entity, and organized themselves into 55 self-help groups (the majority being women). In a remarkable show of collective vision and responsibility, over 96% of water users have paid water use fees to ensure regular maintenance of critical irrigation infrastructure. Yields of major food crops such as beans, maize and rice have risen – rice farmers now average four tons per hectare compared to only one ton earlier. The rice is sold through the local cooperative thereby improving food and nutrition security in the immediate vicinity of the marshland that would have otherwise remained fallow and unproductive. “Rwanda’s experiences provide meaningful lessons on how a well-performing agriculture and food sector can make a sizeable dent in poverty,” said Severin Kodderitzsch, Manager in the World Bank Agriculture Global Practice. “We hope that these pioneering successes can be replicated more broadly across eastern Africa for maximum development impact.” RELATED WORLD BANK Video: How Snow Peas Help Rwandan Families Slideshow: Rwanda's Path to Agricultural Transformation Project: Rwanda Third Rural Sector Support Project EXTERNAL Facebook: The World Bank in Africa Twitter: The World Bank in Africa Youtube: The World Bank in Africa MULTIMEDIA Previous 1 / 2 Next Video VIDEO A Tale of Two Tables: How Snow Peas Help Rwandan Families Rwanda Home Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.