Turn Down the Heat: Climate Extremes, Regional Impacts, and the Case for Resilience --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Understanding Poverty Topics Climate Change publication Turn Down the Heat: Climate Extremes, Regional Impacts, and the Case for Resilience Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Report Highlights This report, part II in a series, looks at likely impacts of 2°C and 4°C warming across three vulnerable regions. It describes risks to agriculture and livelihoods in Sub-Saharan Africa, the rise in sea-level and devastation to coastal areas likely in South East Asia, and water extremes facing South Asia. Turn Down the Heat warns that poor coastal urban communities are among the most vulnerable to climate change. In the report Turn Down the Heat: Climate Extremes, Regional Impacts, and the Case for Resilience , launched in June 2013, scientists look at the likely impacts on three vulnerable regions if the world continues on its current trajectory and warms by 2 degrees Celsius over pre-industrial times by mid-century and continues to become 4°C warmer by 2100. The report looks across Sub-Saharan Africa, South Asia, and South East Asia, revealing how rising global temperatures are increasingly threatening the health and livelihoods of their most vulnerable populations. It builds on the previous report in the series, Turn Down the Heat: Why a 4°C World Must Be Avoided , that concluded the world likely will warm by 4°C by the end of the century. The latest report in the series describes the risks to agriculture and food security in sub-Saharan Africa; rise in sea-level, bleaching of coral reefs, and devastation of coastal areas in South East Asia; and fluctuating rain patterns and food production impacts in South Asia. The report, prepared by the Potsdam Institute of Climate Research and Climate Analytics , synthesizes the current peer-reviewed literature and supplements it with computer modeling, finding that future impacts across the regions are potentially devastating. To learn more, click the links below. Launch Event Reuters Newsmaker: A Conversation with World Bank Group President Jim Yong Kim ( Transcript of the event) Report Turn Down the Heat: Climate Extremes, Regional Impacts, and the Case for Resilience (Also available on social reading channels: Issuu , Scribd , and Open Knowledge Repository ) Executive Summary in English , Arabic , Chinese , French , Russian , and Spanish President Jim Kim's Op-ed originally published in Washington Post: Op-Ed: Ending Poverty Includes Tackling Climate Change - English , Spanish , French , Russian , Japanese , Chinese Press Releases Global Press Release: Warmer World Will Keep Millions of People Trapped in Poverty, Says New Report World Bank Flash: Turn Down the Heat II: Climate Extremes, Regional Impacts, and the Case for Resilience : Regional Press Release (East Asia): Warmer World Threatens Livelihoods in South East Asia Regional Press Release (South Asia): Warming Climate to Hit South Asia Hard with Extreme Heat, Floods & Disease Country Press Release (Bangladesh): Warming Climate to Hit Bangladesh Hard with Sea Level Rise, More Floods and Cyclones Country Press Release (India): Warming Climate in India to Pose Significant Risk to Agriculture, Water Resources, Health Country Press Release (Maldives): Concerted Efforts Needed to Support Maldives Adapt to Climate Change, World Bank Report Findings Indicate Country Press Release (Nepal): Warming Climate to Hit South Asia Hard with Extreme Heat, Floods & Disease Country Press Release (Pakistan): Warming Climate to Hit South Asia Hard with Extreme Heat, Floods & Disease Feature Stories: What Climate Change Means for Africa, Asia and the Coastal Poor New Report Finds India’s Food Security, Water Resources and Health at Risk From Warming Climate Climate Resilience and Low-Carbon Growth Critical for Nigeria’s Economic Future To the Brink: Climate Change Will Increase Frequency and Severity of Disasters, Stress Food and Energy Production in South Asia Infographic What Climate Change Means for Africa and Asia Multimedia Climate Change in Africa Will Hit the Poor the Hardest World Bank: Warmer World Will Trap Millions in Poverty - Interview with President Jim Yong Kim Regional Vice President for South Asia Discusses Climate Change Impacts on the Region Blogs We Must Confront Climate Change to End Poverty New Climate Report Emphasizes Urgency Why a 4-Degrees World Won't Cause Just One Water Crisis Filipinos, How are You Adapting to Climate Change? You Ask, We Answer Regional Summaries (pdf) Arabic Chinese English French Russian Spanish Home Climate Change East Asia Pacific South Asia Based on the most current peer-reviewed literature and scientific modeling, the report looks at likely impacts of present day, 2°C, and 4°C warming across Sub-Saharan Africa, South Asia and South East Asia. RELATED Feature : What Climate Change Means for Africa, Asia & the Coastal Poor Website : World Bank and Climate Change MULTIMEDIA Video VIDEO Climate Change in Africa Will Hit the Poor the Hardest --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.