Social Development: Development news, research, data | World Bank Understanding Poverty Topics --> Social Development Social development means ensuring all people have access to public services, job opportunities, and a say in the projects that impact them. In addition, it means building cohesive and resilient societies and making institutions accessible and accountable to citizens. Social Development Home Overview Featured BOOK SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY IN DEVELOPMENT Social Sustainability in Development: Meeting the Challenges of the 21st Century seeks to advance the concept of social sustainability and sharpen its analytical foundations. SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY IN DEVELOPMENT PUBLICATION Economic Cost of SOGIESC Exclusion The annual economic loss due to SOGIESC-based exclusion totals 0.5% of the GDP of both North Macedonia and Serbia. Economic Cost of SOGIESC Exclusion Research Forced Displacement and Social Cohesion By mid-2021, an estimated 84 million people worldwide were forcibly displaced, including over 20 million refugees. Forced Displacement and Social Cohesion Social Development At-A-Glance Social Development focuses on the need to “put people first” in development processes. It promotes social inclusion of the poor and vulnerable by empowering people, building cohesive and resilient societies, and making institutions accessible and accountable to citizens. Overview Data Data Project --> Financing Locally-Led Climate Action Program in Kenya This new program establishes the first national-scale model of devolved climate finance and supports the Government of Kenya to translate its ambitious climate agenda into scaled-up action on the ground. Projects Focus Areas Social Cohesion and Resilience About two billion people in the world, and half of the world’s extreme poor, live in countries affected by fragility, conflict ... Social Cohesion and Resilience Social Dimensions of Climate Change As the climate continues to change, millions of poor people face greater challenges in terms of extreme events, health effects, ... Social Dimensions of Climate Change Citizen Engagement Citizens play a critical role in advocating and helping to make public institutions more transparent, accountable and effective,... Citizen Engagement Indigenous Peoples Indigenous Peoples make up 5% of the global population, they account for about 15% of the extreme poor. Indigenous Peoples Sexual Orientation & Gender Identity Despite advances in the past two decades, LGBTI people continue to face widespread discrimination and violence in many ... Sexual Orientation & Gender Identity Disability Inclusion One billion people, or 15% of the world’s population, experience some form of disability. Disability Inclusion Community-Driven Development CDD programs operate on the principles of transparency, participation, local empowerment, demand-responsiveness, greater ... Community-Driven Development Social Inclusion Social inclusion is the process of improving the terms on which individuals and groups take part in society—improving the ... Social Inclusion Research Report Equality of Opportunity for Sexual and Gender Minorities Equality of Opportunity for Sexual and Gender Minorities Report Inclusion Matters in Africa Inclusion Matters in Africa Report Economic Shocks and Human Trafficking Risks Economic Shocks and Human Trafficking Risks Report Inclusive Education and COVID-19 Inclusive Education and COVID-19 Blogs View more blogs on Social Sustainability and Inclusion View All Blogs Experts --> Robin Mearns Global Director, Social Development Robin Mearns --> Maninder Gill Global Director, Environmental and Social Framework Maninder Gill Stay Connected News & Events What's New View All What's New Latest Events View All Events Highlights Just Transition for All Learn about the World Bank Group's support to countries transitioning away from coal. Just Transition for All Environmental and Social Safeguards The World Bank's environmental and social safeguard policies are a cornerstone of its support to sustainable poverty reduction. Environmental and Social Safeguards © Natalia Cieslik / World Bank Conflict and Fragility Fragility, conflict, and violence (FCV) is a critical development challenge that threatens efforts to end extreme poverty, affecting both low- and middle-income countries. Conflict and Fragility Gender-Based Violence (GBV) The World Bank is committed to addressing gender-based violence (GBV) through investment, research and learning, and collaboration with stakeholders around the world. Gender-Based Violence (GBV) Work With Us In Social Development Subscribe to Our Newsletters SUBMIT Jobs Procurement Additional Resources Focus Areas Community-Driven Development Disability Inclusion Gender Indigenous Peoples Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity Social Inclusion Social Dimensions of Climate Change Show More + Citizen Engagement Show Less - Media Inquiries Washington, D.C. Laura Ivers laivers@worldbankgroup.org This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×