World Bank Delegation Visits Port of Djibouti Who We Are News This page in: English Français العربية This page in: English Français العربية Statement June 20, 2024 World Bank Delegation Visits Port of Djibouti Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina On Tuesday June 18, a high-level government delegation made up of the Ministers of Economy, Finance and Industry, Infrastructure and Equipment, Trade and Tourism, Budget, as well as the President of the Djibouti Port and Free Zones Authority received a delegation from the World Bank, led by Mr. Nicolas Peltier-Thiberge, Global Director of Transport. This strategic meeting was marked by in-depth discussions on strengthening the partnership between Djibouti and the World Bank. An essential point of these discussions was the situation of the Port of Djibouti, in particular its ranking in the Container Port Performance Index (CPPI), established annually by the World Bank and S&P Global Market Intelligence to measure the time spent by ships in ports. During the discussions, legitimate concerns were expressed regarding the interpretation of the decline of the Port of Djibouti in this ranking. This decline appears to result, to a large extent, from external factors independent of the port, and could be linked, for example, to the security situation in the Red Sea and to the exceptional and additional verification, inspection and authorization procedures required for cargoes to Yemen, which were strengthened from September 2023. With regard to the performance of the port of Djibouti, this drop must therefore be interpreted with caution. The World Bank delegation also had the opportunity to visit the container handling facilities at the Port of Djibouti and meet local officials for a better understanding of port operations. The Port of Djibouti remains an essential logistics pillar in Africa, playing a central role in regional economic development. Despite disruptions in 2023, the Port saw a significant increase in container traffic in the second half of the year, reinforcing its position of choice for the region's major shipping lines. The World Bank reaffirms its commitment to supporting the Port of Djibouti, known for its performance and its importance for global trade and connectivity with the African continent. This partnership aims to support Djibouti's priorities in terms of inclusive growth, employment, human capital development, and regional connectivity through initiatives to improve infrastructure and promote economic corridors. The World Bank delegation will continue its technical exchanges with the Djiboutian authorities over the coming days to strengthen cooperation and support the sustainable development of Djibouti. Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×