Event | Using Innovative Legal Tools to Return Stolen Assets and Support Development Goals Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Using Innovative Legal Tools to Return Stolen Assets and Support Development Goals Share Overview The session will bring together practitioners and experts in operational and policy work involving asset recovery, which has a significant impact on the availability of domestic resources for development. The session will focus on presenting innovative legal mechanisms at two crucial stages of the asset recovery process. First, the discussion will provide an overview of asset recovery and return based on the StAR Asset Recovery Watch database, then touch on the asset-tracing and investigation stages, including on Unexplained Wealth Orders (UWOs) and their application in the United Kingdom as a concrete example, as well as in other tools. Then the session will address the proceeds recovery stage, focusing on the return of criminal proceeds to victim countries through two main channels: (i) the use of civil remedies for direct asset recovery with examples from Brazil and the G20, and (ii) cross-border cooperation through International Organizations (IOs), highlighting the experience of Nigeria. Participants will gain a deeper understanding of the legal tools currently used in domestic anti-corruption frameworks and international cooperation, as well as how IOs can support and collaborate with countries seeking the return of stolen assets. Speakers: Lucio Alves Angelo , State Attorney, Deputy Coordinator of the Foreign Litigation Unit, Attorney General’s Office, Brazil Elsa Gopala Krishnan , Liason, Stolen Asset Recovery (StAR) Initiative, World Bank Group-UN Office on Drugs and Crime Selimat Lawal , Deputy Head of Asset Recovery and Management Unit, Federal Ministry of Justice, Nigeria Yasmin Pither , Senior Policy Advisor on International Asset Recovery, United Kingtom Home Office Moderator: Frank Fariello , Former Lead Counsel (ret.), World Bank Group Return to the main LJD Week event website here . Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×