Heartbreak Leads to Road Safety Activism for Mandela Family --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Heartbreak Leads to Road Safety Activism for Mandela Family May 5, 2013 This page in: English Français العربية 中文 Español Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Getting to school shouldn't be this dangerous. Road traffic crashes are the No. 1 killer of young people ages 15-24. STORY HIGHLIGHTS Nearly 1.3 million people die every year from road crashes. About 90 percent of the victims are in low- or middle-income countries. This epidemic is a larger global burden of disease than malaria or tuberculosis. The recent Global Burden of Disease study found road crashes to be among the top 10 causes of death globally. On May 9, Kweku Mandela and Safe Kids Worldwide CEO Kate Carr will join World Bank specialists to discuss how to improve road safety in a rapidly urbanizing world. Nelson Mandela's great-granddaughter Zenani was killed in a car crash as she was returning home from a World Cup concert in Soweto in 2010. Her death, two days after her 13th birthday, drew global attention to the high toll in lives and devastating injuries from road traffic crashes globally. Their loss also turned the Mandela family into activists for global road safety. "On the same day that I lost Zenani, a thousand other families also lost a child on the world's roads," her mother, Zoleka Mandela, writes on the website of the Zenani Mandela Campaign . "This disaster continues to rob us of 1,000 young people every single day." As Global Road Safety Week gets underway, Zenani's cousin Kweku Mandela – an activist for the campaign and grandson of Nelson Mandela – will join Safe Kids Worldwide President and CEO Kate Carr and former Costa Rica Transport Minister Karla Gonzalez, now the World Bank's South Asia region transport sector manager, for a live-streamed event to discuss the challenges of pedestrian safety and how to lower the toll on human lives. The event, part of the 2nd Global Road Safety Week (May 6-12), draws attention to the urgent need to better protect pedestrians worldwide, generate action on the measures needed to do so, and contribute to achieving the goal of the Decade of Action for Road Safety 2011-2020 . People worldwide will also being joining the Long Short Walk this week to advocate for safe walking for all pedestrians. Children are a special focus of the campaign – too many risk dying for an education just trying to get to school. A deadly epidemic Nearly 1.3 million people are killed annually by road crashes. Approximately 90 percent of these crashes are in low- or middle-income countries. This epidemic is a larger global burden of disease than malaria or tuberculosis. The recent Global Burden of Disease study found road crashes to be among the top 10 causes of death globally and the No. 1 killer of young people ages 15-24. " Unless action is taken, the sheer scale of pedestrian injuries will undermine country efforts to reduce poverty, enhance living standards, and improve public health. " Marc Juhel Transport Sector Manager, World Bank Road traffic injuries place an enormous strain on health systems in low- and middle-income countries. In Kenya, it is estimated that up to 60 percent of all trauma patients were injured in road traffic crashes. Further, road crash victims and their families in low- and middle-income countries risk falling back into – or being stuck in – poverty due to overwhelming medical costs, poor rehabilitative services, and lack of safety nets. Risks for pedestrians Walking is the most fundamental form of mobility, yet it is also the most vulnerable to road traffic injury. According to the World Health Organization's 2013 Global Status Report on Road Safety , over one-fifth of all road traffic deaths (270,000 annually) are pedestrians. In some countries, such as Ghana, the proportion of pedestrians among road traffic deaths is as high as 40 percent. Many risk factors contribute to the high vulnerability of pedestrians, including the speed of vehicles, alcohol, inadequate visibility, lack of pedestrian safety facilities, and inadequate enforcement of traffic laws. This is documented in a recent best practices manual jointly commissioned by the World Health Organization, the FIA Foundation, the Global Road Safety Partnership, and the World Bank. Mitigating measures, better data While there is no single measure to address all pedestrian risks, many steps can be taken to improve their safety. For example, a 5 percent cut in speed can reduce fatal crashes by 30 percent. Road design, land-use planning, and vehicle design are other important factors. Collecting reliable data is also essential to improving road safety and reducing risks for pedestrians. According to the WHO study, data systems in most countries remain poor, with 71 percent of countries relying on police data systems only. Many deaths occur after a crash victim has been transported to a hospital, so data from health systems are also needed to complete the picture. Through the Global Road Safety Facility , the World Bank is helping countries tackle this challenge. The Bank supported the creation of the Ibero-American Road Safety Observatory (OISEVI), which 22 countries in Latin America and the Caribbean are using to exchange experiences and develop statistics to design effective policy solutions. “As the world continues to motorize, walking needs to be made safer and, particularly in urban environments, promoted as a healthy and less expensive mobility option,” said Marc Juhel, World Bank sector manager for transport. “Unless action is taken, the sheer scale of pedestrian injuries will undermine country efforts to reduce poverty, enhance living standards, and improve public health.” RELATED WORLD BANK Video of Event: Safe Walking for All: A Road Safety Week Conversation with Kweku Mandela & Safe Kids Worldwide Road Safety Fact Sheet Global Road Safety Facility Contributing to Safer Mobility through Better Institutions: The Ibero-American Road Safety Observatory Project Blog: Mothers of Pain EXTERNAL World Health Organization Global Status Report on Road Safety Global Burden of Disease Report Decade of Action for Road Safety, 2011-2020 Zenani Mandela Campaign Global Road Safety Week Costa Rica Home Transport South Africa East Asia Pacific Europe and Central Asia Latin America and Caribbean Home South Asia View More + Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.