HIV/AIDS OST Treatment Workshop --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY HIV/AIDS OST Treatment Workshop October 13, 2011 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> STORY HIGHLIGHTS Opioid Substitution Therapy (OST) is an effective evidence-based treatment for drug use OST is an effective evidence-based treatment for drug use OST gaps in Asia can be effectively addressed through scale up efforts in both community and custodial settings Achieving Results The World Bank South Asia regional AIDS team cohosted a regional workshop on Opioid Substitution Therapy with the Government of the Maldives and in collaboration with UNODC. The workshop brought together 50 policymakers, program implementers, researchers and representatives of networks of drug users from South Asian countries where opioid substitution treatment (OST) has been undertaken and/or is planned as part of an overall comprehensive harm reduction program. Participating country teams from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, India, Nepal, Maldives and Pakistan shared their lessons learned and best practices in implementing OST pilots and programs and learned from each other. A field visit was made to the Male Methadone Maintenance Therapy clinic. The objectives of the workshop were to: identify critical factors that contribute to effective and sustainable OST programs; understand the importance of the design, impact evaluation and commitment to increase and improve M&E of OST programs; and, strengthen commitment to scale up best practices to increase the coverage of OST as an integral component of comprehensive harm reduction. " Methadone as maintenence treatment is a magical mirror that allows to see the past, present and future. " Shoihidul Alam Opiate dependence is a chronic relapsing disorder. While detoxification may lead people into drug treatment, evidence shows its long term effectiveness is generally very poor while substitution treatment is an effective, safe and cost effective modality for the management of opioid dependence, associated with substantial reductions in illicit opioid use, criminal activity, deaths due to overdose, and behaviors with a high risk of HIV transmission. The marginalization of most drug users makes them difficult to reach and negative attitudes to drug users can make it difficult to mobilize financial, political and community support required for effective programs. In addition, local laws and regulations may prohibit the implementation of specific interventions. As a result, many governments are trying to adopt pragmatic approaches to prevent HIV among people who use drugs, and this consultation brought key stakeholders together to seek multi sector solutions to scale up OST. The country teams made commitments to a 100 days results agenda . One of the highlights of the workshop was the presentations by a panel of representatives from drug users networks and organizations. RELATED WORLD BANK HIV/AIDS in South Asia South Asia Analysis and Research EXTERNAL UNODC Website Afghanistan Home Bangladesh India Nepal Pakistan Sri Lanka South Asia View More + Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.