The Trees and the Forest --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News OPINION The Trees and the Forest October 15, 2012 This page in: English Српски Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Loup J. Brefort " If you care about your forest, don’t spend energy trying to prop up a dying old tree, but help young sapling grow healthy instead. " A Chinese proverb The economy is like a forest. Making sure that new young healthy enterprises develop and grow, thus creating new jobs, is far more productive than trying to save at great cost enterprises that are past their life. Sure enough, it is always emotionally difficult when a magnificent old tree falls to the ground. It was part of a landscape we were proud of and was providing a home to the birds and squirrels. They will have to move on and find another place. I am sure many still regard a number of public and socially-owned enterprises created in older days the way we look at these trees. But, as every good forester know, the survival of a healthy forest relies on renewing it with young new shoots. In this regard, the signals sent lately on direction of economic policy seem to be the right ones. A sunset clause for state support to old industries and a focus on renewing the economic and productive landscape of Serbia with the new shoots created by welcoming FDI and eliminating construction, tax and other barriers that prevent saplings to take root and grow to mature trees in an otherwise fertile ground of resources, skills and proximity to markets. RELATED World Bank in Serbia Media Contacts In Belgrad Vesna Kostic Tel : +381 11 3023 747 vkostic@worldbank.org Serbia Europe and Central Asia Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.