Investment Powers Cambodia’s Next Generation of Innovators and Job Creators Who We Are News This page in: English ខ្មែរ This page in: English ខ្មែរ FEATURE STORY August 29, 2025 Investment Powers Cambodia’s Next Generation of Innovators and Job Creators Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Story Highlights The World Bank’s Higher Education Improvement Project has helped Cambodia improve the quality of higher education and research, especially in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM). The project boosted learning opportunities for over 128,000 higher education students in Cambodia, over half of them women, providing them with practical, in-demand skills that make them more competitive in the labor market. An $80 million second phase will support over 32,000 students by updating curricula and digitizing education delivery, making students job-ready for both domestic industries and international opportunities. Dressed in a crisp white lab coat, hairnet, and face mask, third-year student Lan Ly is working attentively in the STEM laboratory alongside her classmates. She places samples of different pieces of fruit in a drying machine, carefully testing the moisture extraction process in each piece. “I chose this subject because Cambodia is an agricultural country,” she explains. “We grow a lot of fruit and vegetables. If we can process them well, we can enhance the quality of local products and even compete for export.” Born and raised in Battambang province, Lan is aware of the potential of Cambodia’s agriculture sector, both in her hometown and across the country. After high school, she chose to pursue a degree in food processing at the National University of Battambang. Lan had the option to study in Phnom Penh, a bigger city with broader opportunities, but she was drawn to her local university. She was impressed by the spacious campus; the clean and welcoming environment; and the presence of experienced lecturers and professors, graduates of both local and international universities. The university’s facilities—including a modern library, a STEM building, and an Agricultural Research and Training Center—provide students with the resources to conduct research and put theory into practice. The STEM building is not just a place for coursework; it is also where she experiments and prepares for competitions. Lan spends hours every day in the lab, where she developed a formula for producing beetroot powder that won first prize at the Khmer Enterprise Entrepreneurial Competition in October 2023. That victory gave her a powerful boost of confidence and is inspiring her to realize her ambitions. Like Lan, fourth-year information technology student Sak Mengseu is proud of the advanced technologies available in the STEM building. These resources are crucial to his research and programming studies. “I can’t afford a high-performance computer for coding,” he says. “The STEM building has made reaching my aspirations possible.” Fifth-year civil engineering student Thay Thatthai echoes these sentiments. For him, the STEM building is vital for deepening knowledge through hands-on practice, after learning theory in class. Thay uses the lab’s equipment to test the quality of concrete, steel, and soil. “This real-world practice strengthens my skills and abilities,” he says. “My internship helped me gain deeper understanding and gave me practical advantages on-site.” Roern Lymeng, a lecturer in agriculture and food processing, explains how students begin using the laboratories. “In their first year, they are introduced to the equipment and learn proper lab procedures. In the second year, they conduct research related to their coursework. By the third year, many are volunteering or interning in the lab, building practical skills and experience.” Lymeng—a former Battambanhg University student who is currently pursuing an MA with project support—is optimistic that the knowledge and experience students gain in the STEM Building will be highly beneficial when they seek employment after graduation. The National University of Battambang is one of nine public institutions of higher education supported by the Higher Education Improvement Project , led by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport and financed by the World Bank. Across the country, the project sets up 67 academic programs, funded 53 research projects, and established or renovated 161 laboratories. Thanks to direct support from the project, the university was able to construct the STEM building and the Agricultural Research and Training Center, where students apply theory to practical research on crops and produce. The STEM building houses 20 fully equipped laboratories with technical tools and testing instruments for construction, electronics, and machinery. The project has also invested in people. More than 540 university staff members have received professional development training, and 27 have pursued postgraduate and doctoral degrees at universities in Cambodia and abroad, including in Australia, the United States, Thailand, and Hong Kong. The main objective of both project phases is to support Cambodia’s efforts to improve the quality of higher education and research, mainly in STEM. A stronger teaching and research ecosystem will benefit future generations of students and workers. His Excellency Sok Khorn, the university’s rector, has a deep appreciation of the transformation brought about by the project. He has set forth a bold vision to transform the university into a leading multidisciplinary institution for education and research, serving the broader needs of Cambodia’s northwestern region. With strong support from the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport and through partnerships with local high schools, the university has seen a surge in enrollment, moving from just 300 students in 2018 to over 7,600 in 2025. “What amazes me most, and fills me with pride, is that more than 65 percent of our students are women, and most have chosen to study science and technology,” says H.E. Sok. With better and expanded access to better-paying careers in science and technology for Cambodian women, the gender gaps in the labor market will hopefully be narrower. Hun Siya, head of the university’s food processing department, notes that continuous improvements in academic programs have led to changes in graduates. “They have become more creative, more intelligent, and more courageous than they were. The university’s laboratories allow students to transform ideas into real products, participate in competitions, and showcase their work publicly.” Hun has benefited from professional development through the project, which has allowed her to deepen her research skills. Now, with support from the project’s second phrase, she is pursuing a Ph.D. These opportunities have gradually strengthened students’ confidence and ability to innovate. Student participation in competitions has now extended beyond Cambodia. A group of students recently competed in an international coding competition in China, earning second place. Thanks to outreach initiatives, the impact of the Higher Education Improvement Projects extends beyond campus. One initiative supports local enterprises in the northwest, in efforts to improve product quality and experiment with new prototypes, with students actively participating in research. The university also partners with regional high schools and secondary schools on life skills and agricultural training, including seed propagation. Stronger links between universities and local industries ensure that students graduate with the skills businesses need, boosting employment opportunities and driving economic growth. The STEM building has become a central hub for students in food processing; coding; civil engineering; and related fields, such as electrical engineering, electronics, and automation systems. It supports the development of research skills, encourages innovation, and helps students deepen their understanding by applying classroom theory in practical settings. Most importantly, it plays a key role in developing Cambodia’s next generation of talent in science and technology. Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×