Stéphane Hallegatte Home Who We Are Experts Stéphane Hallegatte Stéphane Hallegatte Chief Climate Economist, World Bank "" "" Contacts Stéphane Hallegatte shallegatte@worldbank.org RESOURCES Google Scholar Page IDEAS Page AREAS OF EXPERTISE Climate Change Urban Development Stéphane Hallegatte is Chief Climate Economist at the World Bank. He joined the World Bank in 2012 after 10 years of academic research in environmental economics and climate science for Météo-France, the Centre International de Recherche sur l’Environnement et le Développement, and Stanford University. His research interests include the economics of resilient low-emission development, the monitoring and measurement of climate policies on jobs, incomes, poverty, and quality of life; the inclusion of climate change and natural disasters in macroeconomic models and poverty assessments; and exploring the political economy of policies and their robustness to uncertainty. Mr. Hallegatte was a lead author of the 5th Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). He is the author of dozens of articles published in international journals in multiple disciplines and of several books, including Green Economy and the Crisis: 30 Proposals for a More Sustainable France, Risk Management: Lessons from the Storm Xynthia, and Natural Disasters and Climate Change: An Economic Perspective. He also led or co-led numerous World Bank reports including Inclusive Green Growth: The Pathway to Sustainable Development , Decarbonizing Development , Shock Waves: Managing the Impacts of Climate Change on Poverty , Unbreakable: Building the Resilience of the Poor in the Face of Natural Disasters , Lifelines: the Resilient Infrastructure Opportunity and Rising to the Challenge: Success Stories and Strategies for Achieving Climate Adaptation and Resilience . He supervise the new World Bank Group diagnostic, the Country Climate and Development Reports , and has co-led the CCDRs for Türkiye and Brazil . Mr. Hallegatte holds engineering degrees from the Ecole Polytechnique (Paris) and the Ecole Nationale de la Météorologie (Toulouse), a master's degree in meteorology and climatology from the Université Paul Sabatier (Toulouse) and a Ph.D in economics from the Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales (Paris). MORE FROM Stéphane Hallegatte Publications Projects Blog Posts