Event | TICAD9 Thematic Event “Economic Inclusion of Forcibly Displaced Persons in Africa through Humanitarian, Development and Peace Nexus Approaches” Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events TICAD9 Thematic Event “Economic Inclusion of Forcibly Displaced Persons in Africa through Humanitarian, Development and Peace Nexus Approaches” Share Organized by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) Co-organized by UNHCR Overview Background Displacement situations are becoming increasingly protracted and global crises are escalating, even as humanitarian and development funding faces sharp decline. In this context, in line with the principles of the Global Compact on Refugees, it is essential to promote burden-sharing with of host countries. Supporting the inclusion of refugees and other displaced population in national systems and services not only enhances their self-reliance but also improves the quality, availability and accessibility of services for host communities. This event will focus on promoting the self-reliance and economic inclusion of refugees and other forcibly displaced people, with a view to contributing to the broader economic development and resilience of host countries. In November 2024, the East African Community (EAC), the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), UNHCR, and the African Development Bank (AfDB) conducted a regional workshop on Enhancing the Investment Climate for the Economic Empowerment of Refugee, Returnee, and Host/Return Community Women, which resulted in a joint action plan. Recognizing the importance of a regional cross-border approach and the promotion of African ownership, this event aims to identify existing needs and explore actionable initiatives to support the economic inclusion of refugees and others in host countries through HDP Nexus approaches. Key Questions What positive socio-economic impacts can the economic inclusion of refugees and internally displaced persons have on host countries and regions? How can action plans and regional frameworks led by regional organisations contribute to the socio-economic inclusion of refugees, internally displaced persons, and host communities? What are the main challenges in promoting the socio-economic inclusion of refugees, and what policy and institutional measures are being taken to address them? What financial and institutional support is being provided to promote the economic self-reliance of refugees and host communities and strengthen local economies? What lessons have been learned and what are the future directions? How can the private sector be more effectively engaged? Objective Building on the broader regional context, this event will explore best practices and potential initiatives to advance economic inclusion of refugees for self-reliance and the economic development of host countries. It will reaffirm the importance of HDP Nexus approach, particularly in light of declining humanitarian funding, and seek to generate renewed momentum and action. Also, taking the opportunity of TICAD 9 being hosted in Japan, this event will also aim to raise awareness of refugee issues and encourage greater engagement from Japanese private sector. Speaker from World Bank: Ousmane Diagana, Vice President for Western and Central Africa, World Bank Event Details Date/Time 12:30pm-2:00pm, Wednesday, August 20, 2025 (Japan Standard Time) Venue InterContinental Yokohama Grand Hotel Access Format Hybrid (In-person participation and online participation) Details and registration Please see JICA’s webpage: Economic Inclusion of Forcibly Displaced Persons in Africa through Humanitarian, Development and Peace Nexus Approaches Contact Koichi Omori, World Bank Tokyo Office komori@worldbankgroup.org Related The Ninth Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD 9) official site World Bank Africa Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×