Office of the Chief Economist, Latin America and the Caribbean Where We Work Latin America and Caribbean This page in: English Español This page in: English Español Office of the Chief Economist, Latin America and the Caribbean OVERVIEW OUR TEAM PUBLICATIONS RESEARCH ECONOMIC SEMINARS OTHER EVENTS Select a EDS Sub navigation page selecting option, leaving this page OVERVIEW OVERVIEW OUR TEAM PUBLICATIONS RESEARCH ECONOMIC SEMINARS OTHER EVENTS Transformational Entrepreneurship for Jobs and Growth Latin America and the Caribbean continues its efforts to reignite growth and create more and better jobs, but progress remains constrained. The regional growth rate is expected to edge up slightly—from 2.2 percent in 2024 to 2.3 percent in 2025. In this scenario, empowering entrepreneurs and the private sector is essential. They can help fuel needed rapid growth and job creation as central actors in economic progress. Publication site Publication site Publication site Event REPORT Reclaiming the Lost Century of Growth Latin America and the Caribbean has not just lost decades, but a century of growth due to delays in “learning how to learn” and in figuring out how to best take advantage of new technological opportunities. To break out of this long-standing trap, Latin America and the Caribbean must focus on building its “learning capacity”. This is essential not only for industrial transformation but also to navigate the evolving global trade landscape and to harness the opportunities of the energy transition.The region can reclaim the lost century by building learning economies, creating the human capital, institutions, and incentives needed to increase the demand for knowledge, facilitate the flow of new ideas, and foment the process of experimentation. The Office of the Chief Economist provides guidance on strategic priorities and technical quality of economic analysis in the Latin America and the Caribbean region (LAC) . The Office generates timely and relevant knowledge on policy and institutional reforms in the region. It produces research articles and reports on the most pressing development issues facing the continent and fosters a community of economists interested in Latin America and the Caribbean, within the World Bank and with external audiences. This mission is accomplished through: Advising on country and sectoral strategies. Quality enhancement of economic justification and analysis in adjustment and investment lending. Ensuring relevance, coherence and quality of non-lending services. Developing and disseminating regional economic studies. Serving as principal regional spokesperson inside and outside the Bank on strategic and economic issues facing the region. Meet The Chief Economist William Maloney Mr. Maloney research activities and publications have focused on issues related to international trade and finance, developing country labor markets, and innovation and growth. Meet the team William Maloney TWITTER FEED Join our distribution list Jackie Larrabure Email This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×