GBM/PERU – A partnership for development with social inclusion and equity --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY GBM/PERU – A partnership for development with social inclusion and equity March 30, 2012 This page in: English Español Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> For Peru, the new partnership strategy focus on development with social inclusion and greater equity. World Bank STORY HIGHLIGHTS 30% expansion of rural electrification. Improvement of nutrition of 300,000 children under age five. Rehabilitation of 3,350 kilometers of rural roads. Lima, March 30, 2012. - Despite her best efforts, Luz Marina Cusi, leader of a poor highland district in Peru, earned very little selling her kiwicha crops. “ Lots of work and not much money ,” she says, sighing. Over time, and thanks to her tenacity, she managed to acquire machines to produce kiwicha cookies. However, she did not know how to use the machines, and what was worse, had no electricity to operate them anyway. " Thanks to the support of the government and the World Bank’s project on productive uses of electricity, we have put the machines in operation and gained access to markets. We have learned to produce and improve our quality. " Luz Marina Director of the Señor de Huanca Kiwicha Processing Association, Sacred Valley of the Incas, Cusco. She is just one of the 645,000 people benefitting from the Rural Electrification Project, whose objective is to improve the quality of life of poor people living in rural areas by providing electricity, training and access to markets. The project forms part of the portfolio of 17 projects totaling US$1.95 billion that the World Bank finances in Peru. When the Rural Electrification Project began in 2006, more than six million people living in rural areas did not have electricity. The goal is to reach 85% of that population by 2016. This means expanding electricity service to 84,000 new households. The project to reduce chronic malnutrition among children under age five is also continuing. So far, the project has helped reduce malnutrition from 28.5% in 2007 to 19.5% in 2011. The project strategy links the reduction in chronic malnutrition to social programs to benefit 300,000 Peruvians, including 42,000 children under age three. The project to rehabilitate approximately 3,350 kilometers of rural roads and 1,780 kilometers of regional highways will continue in an effort to reduce travel times and costs of transporting people and commodities. By 2013, an estimated 750 qualified microenterprises will provide road maintenance services. Continuing these and other efforts will help overcome the major challenges the country faces for achieving social inclusion. To that end, the World Bank’s Board of Executive Directors endorsed the new 2012-2016 Partnership Strategy for Peru, which supports governmental management and prioritizes social equity, to be achieved through increased access to basic services and infrastructure and promotion of competitiveness. This new partnership has four main objectives: Increase access to and quality of social services for development with greater equity. Connect the low-income population to services and markets. Promote sustainable growth and productivity. Improve public sector performance for greater inclusion. Under this new strategy, financing can be increased up to US$ 250 million annually. For its part, the International Finance Cooperation, the World Bank agency that works with the private sector, is developing a US$ 835 million program . RELATED WORLD BANK Read the new Country Partnership Strategy with Peru - Official Document Peru Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.