Coastal Flooding Maps - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Back to climate , updates Coastal Flooding Maps By Data.gov admins · February 25, 2014 Here are mapping tools and data layers to help you analyze and assess vulnerabilities in coastal communities from the combination of sea level rise, storm surges, and sinking lands. These resources aim to help coastal communities identify and reduce vulnerabilities to inundation and improve their resilience. Note: Images have embedded links Sandy Sea Level Rise Planning Tool – New York City # The Sandy Sea Level Rise Planning Tool – New York City maps sea level rise risk scenarios in New York City, NY, based on Hurricane Sandy impacts. Contributors: NOAA Sea Level Rise Viewer # The Sea Level Rise Viewer is an interactive map viewer that displays areas of sea level rise and potential coastal flooding impacts. Contributors: NOAA Historical Hurricane Tracks Tool # The Historical Hurricane Tracks Tool allows users to visualize historic hurricane paths and intensities along their path. Contributors: NOAA International Best Track Archive for Climate Stewardship (IBTrACS) # The International Best Track Archive for Climate Stewardship (IBTrACS) project compiles recent and historical global tropical cyclone data from various centers to improve data availability and discovery. Contributors: NOAA, NCEI NOAA nowCOAST Web Mapping Portal # NOAA’s nowCOAST Web Portal for Near-Real-Time Coastal Information provides users with near-real-time coastal observations, forecasts, and warnings. Contributors: NOAA NOAA Coastal Change Analysis Program (C-CAP) Land Cover Atlas # NOAA’s Coastal Change Analysis Program (C-CAP) Land Cover Atlas is an online data viewer for coastal land cover and land cover change information, such as forest loss or new urban development. Contributors: NOAA FEMA National Flood Hazard Layer (NFHL) # FEMA's National Flood Hazard Layer (NFHL) Viewer is a visualization tool that allows users to view, download, and print flood hazard data. Contributors: FEMA FEMA Hazus Average Annualized Loss Viewer # FEMA’s Hazus Average Annualized Loss Viewer to assess and mitigate risks and vulnerabilities associated with flooding using FEMA MOTF and Hazus Loss Estimation Model. *Requires ArcGIS FEMA user account to view. Contributors: FEMA Coastal Change Hazards Portal # The Coastal Change Hazards Portal is an interactive data viewer that provides access to coastal change data such as shoreline change and sea level rise. Contributors: USGS About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov