Morocco’s Blue Future: How Aquaculture Can Power Growth and Jobs Who We Are News This page in: English Français العربية This page in: English Français العربية FEATURE STORY November 11, 2025 Morocco’s Blue Future: How Aquaculture Can Power Growth and Jobs Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina STORY HIGHLIGHTS Morocco is steadily advancing toward its goal of 300,000 tons of aquaculture production and 30,000 jobs within the next decade, positioning aquaculture as a new engine for sustainable growth and innovation. The opportunities are vast: domestic seafood consumption is rising due to population growth and awareness of seafood’s health benefits while global demand continues to increase. The World Bank Group is supporting Morocco build a climate-resilient Blue Economy and helping pioneering ventures in shrimp and seaweed farming scale up production, tap into global markets and attract private sector investments. Morocco is setting its sights on the sea. With its extensive coastline, rich marine ecosystems, and a growing global appetite for sustainable seafood, the Kingdom is turning to marine aquaculture as a new engine for growth, innovation and jobs. Morocco’s aquaculture sector holds considerable promise with the current production of 3,600 tons representing only a fraction of what the country can achieve. With sustained public and private investment, Morocco is steadily advancing toward its goal of reaching 300,000 tons of aquaculture production and 30,000 jobs within the next decade. Current production already includes a diverse range of species – fish, clams, mussels, oysters, seaweed and shrimp - with emerging opportunities in seaweed farming and shellfish cultivation. At the same time, reforms are taking shape to get the right enabling environment. The country has mapped its most suitable aquaculture zones, built a modern regulatory framework, and strengthened trade links, opening access to global seafood markets. Building on its initial production, Morocco is now expanding its base through 322 licensed farms targeting a total annual output of over 124,000 tons for now. The opportunities are vast, and Morocco’s domestic seafood consumption is rising, driven by population growth and awareness of seafood’s health benefits. This year, investment opportunities are expected to exceed USD$1 billion, and aquaculture can play a key role in reducing seafood imports and stabilizing domestic supply. " The World Bank Group stands ready to support the Kingdom of Morocco and the National Agency for the Development of Aquaculture in advancing aquaculture as a national priority. We support streamlining regulations, reducing investment risks, and mobilizing financing —leveraging the International Finance Corporation’s leadership to boost private sector participation in this promising sector ," said Ahmadou Moustapha Ndiaye, World Bank Division Director for Maghreb and Malta . The World Bank is already supporting Morocco in building a climate-resilient Blue Economy through a $350 million Program for Results and a grant of $5 million from PROBLUE Multi-Donor Trust Fund. Early transformative results include the sustainable management of marine and coastal resources, restoration of coastal forests and dunes, and improved protection of communities against flooding and erosion. Complementing this effort, the North Africa Blue Economy Program Phase II provides targeted technical assistance to the National Agency for the Development of Aquaculture (ANDA) to strengthen its capacity for sustainable aquaculture development. This includes analytical work, training on sustainable shrimp farming, a methodology for aquaculture site selection, and a roadmap for advancing seaweed farming —key elements in realizing Morocco’s aquaculture vision. Targeted investments have supported scalable models in shrimp and seaweed farming, helping to strengthen Morocco’s climate-resilient aquaculture value chains. In parallel, the Country Private Sector Diagnostic - a joint World Bank Group analysis led by IFC - is assessing investment opportunities and barriers to private sector participation in marine aquaculture among other sectors. Innovative ventures are already demonstrating how sustainability and growth can go hand in hand. VitaminSea Morocco, one of the pilot aquaculture farms supported under the Blue Economy Program for Results, showcases the potential for sustainable shrimp. " At VitaminSea Morocco, we currently produce around 60 tons of shrimp annually, entirely for local consumption. With the right investment, we can scale up fivefold to 300 tons per year. While we are still importing larvae from the United States, our goal is to establish a full local production unit and position our company as a competitive player in regional and global shrimp markets ," explained Driss Krafess, Co-founder, VitaminSea Morocco . Globally, marine and coastal aquaculture produced 71 million tons in 2022. Morocco’s ambitions, while modest in comparison, position it to tap into this growing market. At the heart of this new wave lies seaweed farming, which is now becoming a cornerstone of Morocco’s bio-innovation drive. Seaweed isn’t just food — it’s an ingredient for cosmetics, fertilizers, pharmaceuticals, textiles, bioenergy and even climate solutions. Moroccan universities are also partnering with startups to pilot seaweed-based. SETEXAM, a family-owned company specialized in seaweed production, has also benefited from the Blue Economy Program for Results. " We are building on the lessons learned since 1960 and experimenting with e-commerce to widen our market. With the right investment, we can scale up production and fully unlock the potential of Morocco’s marine resources, " said Rachid Lebar, Director, SETEXAM . The potential is clear, but so are the challenges. Production efficiency and scalability remain constrained by gaps in hatcheries, feed mills, cold storage, and processing facilities. Yet progress is tangible. Reforms are underway, and partnerships are growing stronger. With continued commitment and investment, Morocco can position itself as a regional leader in aquaculture—creating jobs, boosting exports, and protecting marine ecosystems. From seaweed to shrimp, Morocco’s Blue Economy is no longer just a vision: it is a future taking shape—where the ocean becomes a source of prosperity and resilience for generations to come. RELATED The World Bank in Morocco The World Bank in MENAAP Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×