Six Points of Wisdom to African Women in Economics Who We Are News FEATURE STORY December 20, 2024 Six Points of Wisdom to African Women in Economics Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Crystal Simeoni, Pan-African feminist and Director of Nawi – the Afrifem Macroeconomics Collective, shares advice to young African women in the economics field. The economic space has been largely led by older men and predominantly from the global north. Within Africa, work on the economy especially at a macro level is also dominated by men. These were the circumstances early in my career, and these circumstances persist today. Although I may not be able to go back in time, I would like to use this space to provide some advice for the current aspiring African women economists. Crystal Simeoni Recently, TAP and AAAWE hosted a webinar on “African Women in the Economics Profession” for the mentees of their joint Female Mentorship Program . This featured wise advice from speakers, including Pan-African feminist and Director of Nawi – the Afrifem Macroeconomics Collective, Crystal Simeoni, who encouraged many mentees in their paths. She shares more of her testimony including her Six Points of Wisdom to African woman economists below. On the 29th of October 2024, I spoke on a webinar organized jointly by the Association for the Advancement of African Women Economists (AAAWE) and the Think Africa Partnership (TAP) alongside great thought leaders and practitioners. As I prepared for the webinar, it gave me a moment of pause, to reflect on my own journey towards– working in the space of Macro-level economics from a Pan African feminist perspective. The economic space has been largely led by older men and predominantly from the global north. Within Africa, work on the economy especially at a macro level is also dominated by men. These were the circumstances early in my career, and these circumstances persist today. Although I may not be able to go back in time, I would like to use this space to provide some advice for the current aspiring African women economists. So, I’m outlining 6 points that I wish someone told me 15 years ago: 1. Challenge the Status Quo: Economics, as traditionally taught, often overlooks the contributions of women and the informal economy. Question these assumptions. These are all constructs, and the world order can be deconstructed and reconstructed for justice and fairness. Work towards this and part of it is contributing to shifting narratives and conceptual frames. Economics isn’t just about numbers. It’s about understanding the lives, nuances, and stories that make those numbers. Normalize qualitative data. Push for quantitative data that tells a gendered story to expose gender inequalities and uncovers where interventions can be offered to offer alternative frames. 2. Center Intersectionality in your thinking and analysis: Our lived experiences are shaped by multiple identities – race, class, sexuality, religion, ability / disability, etc. Acknowledge these intersections in your analysis to understand the multifaceted challenges women face. Work hard to center the voices of marginalized women in your thinking and research. 3. Build and sustain Solidarity: Network with other feminist economists across the continent. Share knowledge, experiences, and support each other's work. Make sure that the work is centered on movements - social movements, feminist movements, workers movements, etc. This is where real life issues are tackled head-on. Amplify their voices, their questions, their analysis and ensure your research has real-world impact. 4. Prioritize Social Reproduction: Challenge the notion of the "rational economic actor" and incorporate care ethics into economic analysis. Underpinned in knowing that so much of how the world calculates the economy completely erases the contribution of women’s labor. This labor is often undervalued, underpaid or not paid at all. Yet it is this labor that upholds families, communities, and economies at all levels. Advocate for policies that support the recognition of this labor and ensure policy alternatives hold this at its core. 5. Advocate for Feminist Economic Policy alternatives: Look for feminist economists who have theorized so many of our problems. Understand them, reference them to balance out an epistemological inequality in the economics field. Continue their efforts and work by demanding policies promoting gender equality and justice. 6. Nurture the Next Generation: Mentor young women interested in economics and encourage them to pursue careers in this field. Create spaces for intergenerational and cross regional dialogue and knowledge sharing. Lastly, remember, the fight for economic justice is a long one - it is a collective marathon and not a solo sprint. Stay committed, stay together, and never underestimate the power of your ideas. Together, we can build a more equitable and just future for all women. RELATED Think Africa Partnership (TAP) Think Africa Partnership The Chief Economists of Government (CEoG) Network supporting the role of Africa’s chief economic advisors Bridging the female academic gap in Africa: A success story of women’s mentorship Nawi Collective Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×