Youth2Youth: Meet Ted Boulou --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Youth2Youth: Meet Ted Boulou November 15, 2012 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Y2Y World Community Name, location, brief job description? I am Ted Boulou, Cameroon national. I recently joined IFC as an Investment Analyst in the Africa Infrastructure Team, in Dakar. Basically, my job consists in evaluating and financing big projects in power and transport sectors in sub-Saharan where need for large-scale infrastructure in crucial. I also do upfront research to detect zones with critical needs of investment in infrastructure. Why the World Bank Group? I have a keen interest in participating in the development of Africa and IFC-World Bank is the most important institution that has a large-scale impact on that part of the world. Most interesting experience you’ve had here? Actually, I have been there for just a couple of months, so I do not have that much to say. Yet, I have already had an idea of the kind of impact we can have. We can really help countries designing sector reforms that will make their development be sustainable. Being part of discussions involving high level officials like ministers is a wonderful experience. What would make the Bank the coolest place to work at? It already is!! But more seriously, the fact at the bank share the same goals in terms of changing somehow the world we live makes the place very pleasant to work for. Yet, as every young person, I am impatient and have sometimes the feeling that things move too slowly and that can be frustrating. Tell us about the Bank and youth? Do you have advice for youth? In fact, my work is not strictly related to youth. But as we finance large-scale products, we create local jobs that help reducing youth unemployment. And that criteria is very important when we decide to lend money to a particular projects. As indirect effect, the structural reforms we initiate in some countries along our investment help facilitating entrepreneurship, thus allowing the creation of thousands of indirect opportunities for young people. Your passion outside of work? Outside work, I am passionate about Football, chess and I blog about Africa’s economics. The future… (plans, post-Bank)? The future is ours… I will be where my dedication to change somehow the world will be the most efficient. I have still a lot to learn inside the Bank as our businesses are various and very interesting. My secret dream is entrepreneurship, in emerging countries, but this is another story. Anything else you’d like to share with the Y2Y world community? I honestly think this times are critical for the entire human being. The challenges we face are huge, mostly in terms of sustainability of development and redistribution of wealth between countries. We are the one that can bring new ideas to live better and together, we have to use new technologies and original ways of thinking to face those challenges. And I think this is our responsibility. Check out my Twitter feed Find me on Linkedin RELATED WORLD BANK Youth2Youth Website Youth2Youth on Facebook Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.