Reforms can Help Bhutan Benefit from Sustainable Migration: World Bank Who We Are News PRESS RELEASE October 1, 2025 Reforms can Help Bhutan Benefit from Sustainable Migration: World Bank Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina THIMPHU, September 30, 2025 — Migration of Bhutan’s educated young and its skilled professionals in recent years has been concerning to the Royal Government of Bhutan and international partners, says a new World Bank Report released today. Building on the South Asia Mobility Conference, which took place in Thimphu in May 2024, the report, Migration Dynamics in Bhutan: Recent Trends, Drivers, and Implications , sheds more light on the recent surge in emigration, mainly to Australia, by documenting the profile of existing migrants, aspiring migrants, identifying key drivers behind this trend, as well as outlining policy options for the government’s consideration. “Bhutan’s high levels of out-bound migration reflects both rising aspirations and the need to accelerate the creation of domestic job opportunities in the private sector,” said Xavier Furtado, World Bank Group Country Manager for Bhutan “To address these challenges, policymakers can focus on a range of measures, including: accelerating reforms to create more and better jobs in the private sector and critical public services, while actively managing migration to minimize skills losses and maximize benefits through training, pre-departure support, and stronger reintegration.” The report finds that those leaving Bhutan are significantly younger and more educated than the general population: 53 percent of migrants hold university degrees, compared to about 7 percent of the working-age population. Civil servants account for nearly half of all migrants; in 2024, almost 70 percent of all voluntary resignations in the civil service came from education and health sectors. This exodus of skilled workers highlights the risk of weakening Bhutan’s human capital base at a time when these sectors are most needed to sustain development progress. “ While migration is unlikely to stop, it can be better managed ,” Jumana Alaref, World Bank Senior Economist and Co-author of the report. “Policies that strengthen civil service retention, expand training and certification in critical occupations, and support migrants through the full cycle—from departure to return—will help Bhutan safeguard its development achievements .” The report notes that COVID-19 exacerbated existing labor-market constraints. Unemployment rose to 6% in 2022, with higher rates for urban women (15%) and the highly educated (12%). Inadequate earnings and limited career progression in the public sector led to the surge in migration. Most migrants earned less than Nu 40,000 per month in Bhutan, while they earn at least Nu 60,000 in Australia. Factors from the Australian side, including high quality and affordable education, appeal to many Bhutanese. Between January and September 2024, 13,406 Bhutanese students were enrolled in Australian universities. Australia’s favorable visa regime and growing diaspora networks further make it an attractive destination. The report finds that many migrants and aspiring migrants are willing to return or to reconsider migrating if local wages improve. However, their expected minimum wage levels are inconsistent with what the domestic labor market offers. For some, the minimum wage levels they are willing to accept are above Nu 100,000 per month, comparable to the top 1 percent of wage earners in Bhutan. The study draws on a 2024 household phone survey covering 1,208 households, along with administrative data and international sources to understand the profile of migrants, their motivations, as well as the challenges and opportunities that migration presents. Managing migration sustainably will require expanding opportunities in the private sector, supported by reforms in the civil service to improve job satisfaction and career progression. Equally important will be strengthening skills by focusing on education, training, and certification systems to minimize potential risks of brain drain as well as providing support throughout the migration cycle, including improved access to accurate pre-departure information, offering robust reintegration programs for returnees, and fostering engagement with Bhutan’s growing diaspora. Together, these measures can begin to help the country minimize any potential costs while maximizing the long-term benefits of migration. Contacts In Thimphu/Dhaka Mehrin A. Mahbub mmahbub@worldbank.org In Washington Diana Chung dchung1@worldbank.org RELATED The World Bank South Asia World Bank South Asia on Facebook World Bank South Asia on X Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×