Launch of Energy & Infrastructure Resilience theme of Climate.Data.Gov - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Back to climate , updates Launch of Energy & Infrastructure Resilience theme of Climate.Data.Gov By Ana Pinheiro Privette · June 25, 2015 To help communities, governments, businesses, and research institutions better understand and plan for the risks of storms, floods, and other climate-change-related impacts, the U.S. Government is enhancing accessibility and releasing today a collection of datasets containing scientific and technical information that may help inform the current and potential future effects of climate change on energy and infrastructure. These data are also being made available via mapping services onGeoplatform.gov. The resources provided here can be used to explore and develop insights for a number of relevant questions, such as: How are fundamental energy resources impacted by climate? How might changes in climate and natural resource availability impact energy conversion infrastructure and processes? How might climate impact energy transmission and distribution systems? How might energy demands be impacted by climate change, including heating and cooling but also energy losses and energy used for adaptation by other sectors? What capacity do we currently have to adapt energy systems, and how might technology solutions, systems designs, and operational changes improve energy system resilience for climate change? How might climate change impact energy infrastructure and its interactions with networked and interconnected infrastructure systems? About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov