Innovating the Development Response to Forced Displacement --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Innovating the Development Response to Forced Displacement June 20, 2016 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Development organizations have a significant role to play to manage global forced displacement crises with long term solutions, with a great urgency for new ideas and approaches. The global forced displacement crisis has provided impetus to think differently about how to address this enormous challenge. As UNHCR announced today , there are now an estimated 65 million people who have fled their homes due to conflict. Among these are 21.3 million refugees, 1.8 million more than in 2014. But what is less known is that the majority of the top countries of origin for these refugees have been on the list for at least five years, including Afghanistan — a major country of origin for over 33 years. This means development organizations have a significant role to play to manage these crises with long term solutions, with a great urgency for new ideas and approaches to transform the response. Through the Global Program on Forced Displacement (GPFD) , the World Bank Group has been working to support the displaced and their hosts from this perspective. There’s much room to innovate in this area, drawing from development experience. As one way to make a contribution, the GPFD sponsored a competition calling for proposals to help catalyze new ideas that can be realized on the ground to improve the development response to forced displacement, engaging practitioners from development agencies, the private sector, civil society, academia and others who are exploring different development approaches. The response was overwhelming. The GPFD received almost 500 proposals, many riding on the momentum to think outside the box. The three winning proposals looked at ways to address the vulnerabilities that displaced have that hinder their ability to take advantage of opportunities that may exist — such as access to affordable healthcare, or ways to earn a living so they can become self-reliant. The first idea proposed universal health care for refugees, which would have been unthinkable not too long ago. Today, when humanitarian and development actors are working together much more closely, new pathways are opening up. Instead of investing in parallel and costly health systems for refugees, funding could be channeled into strengthening and expanding existing health systems. This could lead to cost effective health care for refugees when an emergency occurs, while improving national health care coverage in host countries struggling with overburdened and weak systems. The second winner aimed to tackle one of the main concerns for the displaced — their inability to earn an income and become self-reliant. The proposal looks at growing demand for services to convert documents into digitally accessible formats, and suggests training refugees as well as youth in host communities and matching them with available work using cloud-based systems to provide "digital livelihoods." The third idea focused on the skills that refugees have, but are often unable to apply in their host countries. By setting up a center to provide information on available migration opportunities, skills and employment matching, language, etc., and setting up a fund to provide loans covering migration costs, refugees might have the opportunity to move through existing and legal economic migration routes, where they can rebuild their lives. Of course, forced displacement has complexities unique to each situation that cannot be ignored in efforts to resolve them. The displaced, who are fleeing conflict, have suffered a tremendous ordeal and it will take time and support for them to rebuild their lives. If the volume of ideas that were received for this competition are any indication, development organizations have a good chance of doing better, exploring innovative and transformational ideas to bring them to scale and help improve the lives of the displaced and hosts alike. Education Fragility, Conflict and Violence Health RELATED WORLD BANK Universal Health, Digital Livelihoods and Jobs: World Bank Announces Winners of Innovative Ideas Competition to Improve the Development Response to Forced Displacement Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.