Data.gov CKAN Catalog - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Back to updates Data.gov CKAN Catalog June 11, 2012 Data.gov is pleased to announce the launch of a new data catalog on an open source data management system called CKAN used by the data portals of the U.K., Germany, Brazil, and a number of other governments around the world. The new catalog consolidates all of Data.gov’s holdings in one easy-to-use catalog. It features a number of improvements, such as an improved search that helps you find all the datasets for a particular location, such as your zip code, better sorting and tagging of datasets, and improved metadata. Data.gov now has one unified data catalog based on an open source standard that will make it easier to federate with other federal agency catalogs, as well as those of states , cities , and counties . The new CKAN catalog will also enable the implementation of the Open Data Policy , as it will easily harvest the data inventories that federal agencies will be creating under the policy. The result will be a user-friendly, comprehensive catalog that will allow citizens, developers and others to fully take advantage of the vast array of federal data that affects the daily lives of citizens. About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov