Stories From the Field - A Look at World Bank Carbon Finance Projects in Africa --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Understanding Poverty Topics Climate Change publication Stories From the Field - A Look at World Bank Carbon Finance Projects in Africa Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Photo: Jonathan Ernst / World Bank The World Bank Group supports a number of projects in Africa that lower greenhouse gas emissions and earn carbon credits. Many of these projects and programs are located in least developed countries and have an important impact on poor communities, creating jobs and improving health and education through the use of carbon revenue for the benefits of communities. Below, is a list of examples that illustrate the benefits of choosing a low carbon development path and how carbon finance can help finance projects. Egypt: Vehicle Scrapping and Recycling Project The program led to replacing over 40,000 old taxis in Cairo and has helped avoid the equivalent of 130,000 tons of carbon dioxide in 2013 and 2014. Ethiopia: Humbo Assisted Natural Regeneration Project In less than four years, the project helped restore 2,700 hectares of land in the country and has become a model for other farmer-managed regeneration efforts undertaken in Niger, Chad, and Burkina Faso. Kenya: Olkaria II Unit 3 Geothermal Expansion Project As Kenya's first Clean Development Mechanism project to issue certified emissions reduction, it helped add 35 megawatts of electricity to the Kenyan national grid and issued over 230,000 carbon credits. Kenya: Sustainable Agriculture Land Management Project The project led to tripling of maize yields for Kenyan farmers and trained over 300,000 small-holder farmers on sustainable land management practices. Madagascar: Ankeniheny-Zahamena Corridor Biodiversity Conservation (REDD+) Project The project has generated almost four million carbon credits and has provided susbtantial community benefits such as fish farming, improved irrigated rice cultivation, and bean production. Morocco: Municipal Solid Waste Management Program The program will not only contribute to mitigating greenhouse gas emissions in Morocco but will also generate local environmental and social benefits like improved air quality by reducing pollution. Nigeria: Earthcare Solid Waste Composting Project As the first composting activity in Nigeria to be registered with the Clean Development Mechanism, the project is expected to issue about 30,000 carbon credits by the end of 2015. Rwanda: Electrogaz Compact Fluorescent Lightbulb Distribution The project has distributed 800,000 compact fluoresecent lamps in the last eight years, reducing the equivalent of 21,000 tons of carbon dioxide per year and has generated 130,000 carbon credits. South Africa: Carbon Tax South Africa plans to introduce a carbon tax at R120 ($11.20) per tonne of carbon dioxide in 2016, with annual increases of 10% until 2019/20. The project is helping in the design and implentation of the tax. South Africa: Durban Landfill Gas-to-Electricity Project The project is adding three megawatts of electricity to the Durban municipality and has issued about 181,000 carbon credits. RELATED WEBSITE World Bank Carbon Funds and Facilities WEBSITE Clean Development Mechanism Contact Washington D.C. Isabel Hagbrink Email Egypt Home Climate Change Ethiopia Kenya Madagascar Morocco Nigeria Rwanda South Africa View More + --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.