Human Health Data - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Back to climate , updates Human Health Data August 24, 2015 Climate change threatens to increase human health risks, both physical and mental, by increasing exposure to extreme weather events, affecting the quality of essential resources such as air, food, and water, and increasing the prevalence of vector-, food-, and waterborne illnesses. Proactive adaptation efforts are needed to assess the vulnerability of different human populations and reduce risks. Here you can access data, information, and decision tools describing and analyzing climate change impacts on public health. Extreme heat and precipitation, air pollution, diseases carried by vectors, and food and water-borne illnesses are just some of the topics addressed in these resources. Citizens, businesses, non-governmental agencies, and governments can use these resources to better prepare for climate-related impacts on health. You may access the framing questions used to select the data and content available for this theme. Use the Data.gov data search portal to locate all Human Health datasets . For more information, explore the Climate Resilience Toolkit topic area for Health . About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov