World Bank Appoints New Country Manager for Armenia Who We Are News This page in: English Հայերեն This page in: English Հայերեն PRESS RELEASE July 1, 2025 World Bank Appoints New Country Manager for Armenia Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Yerevan, July 1, 2025 — The World Bank has appointed Fabrizio Zarcone as its new Country Manager for Armenia, effective July 1, 2025. An Italian national, Zarcone brings more than two decades of development experience to the role, including leadership positions across Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, and Sub-Saharan Africa. He will lead the World Bank’s policy dialogue with the government and development partners in Armenia. Zarcone will oversee the implementation of the World Bank Group’s Country Partnership Framework for Armenia, ensure effective execution of the Bank’s ongoing as well as the recently approved projects in energy and water sectors, and manage the country team based in Yerevan. “I am honored to join the World Bank team in Armenia and to build on our strong partnership with the government and people of Armenia ,” said World Bank Country Manager for Armenia Fabrizio Zarcone . “ My focus will be on supporting the country’s development priorities, especially in strengthening resilience, creating jobs, and investing in human capital while also advancing climate action and inclusive growth .” Before his appointment to Armenia, Zarcone served as Country Manager for Thailand. Prior to that, he was Country Manager for Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, and the Slovak Republic, where he led a wide-ranging portfolio of technical assistance projects. He has also served as Country Manager for Costa Rica and El Salvador, overseeing lending and advisory services for both countries. Earlier in his career, Zarcone worked in the Middle East covering the West Bank and Gaza, managing critical budget support operations. Zarcone holds a Ph.D. in Management Sciences from Escuela Superior de Administración y Dirección de Empresas (ESADE), and a master’s degree in European economics and law. About the World Bank in Armenia The World Bank and Armenia have a productive partnership since the country joined the institution in 1992. Over the past three decades, the World Bank has provided over $2.5 billion in financing to Armenia, supporting a wide range of development priorities, including infrastructure, education, health, social protection, and public sector modernization. The current portfolio focuses on promoting inclusive growth, strengthening human capital, enhancing resilience, and accelerating the green transition. PRESS RELEASE NO: 2026/ECA/001 Contacts In Washington: Christopher Walsh +1 (202) 473-4594 cwalsh@worldbankgroup.org In Yerevan: Hasmik Soghomonyan +374 91291300 hsoghomonyan@worldbankgroup.org RELATED World Bank in Armenia Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×