Kyrgyz Republic and World Bank Group Partner to Advance Reforms for Energy Development and Sustainable, Inclusive Growth Who We Are News This page in: English Русский This page in: English Русский PRESS RELEASE June 20, 2025 Kyrgyz Republic and World Bank Group Partner to Advance Reforms for Energy Development and Sustainable, Inclusive Growth Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina WASHINGTON, June 20, 2025 – The World Bank’s Board of Executive Directors today approved $101 million for the First Sustainable and Inclusive Growth Development Policy Operation for the Kyrgyz Republic. This operation will provide budgetary support to help the Kyrgyz government implement a comprehensive program of reforms aimed at ensuring a sustainable energy supply, enhancing social service delivery, and strengthening fiscal sustainability and the business environment. With aspirations to move the country toward an upper-middle-income status by 2030, the Kyrgyz government is advancing a bold reform agenda to unlock socio-economic growth. Central to this agenda is achieving a transformational impact from the Kambarata-1 Hydropower Project on the Kyrgyz economy. The government is working in close partnership with the World Bank Group and other development partners to ensure that this landmark project delivers inclusive and lasting benefits for all. The First Sustainable and Inclusive Growth Development Policy Operation is a key step toward creating a conducive environment for achieving this objective. “This Development Policy Operation reflects our strong partnership with the Kyrgyz Republic and our shared goal – to deliver tangible results for people,” said Hugh Riddell, World Bank Group Country Manager for the Kyrgyz Republic. “As the country advances with the landmark Kambarata-1 Hydropower Project, the reforms supported by this operation will help create jobs, build skills, and establish the right conditions to ensure the project delivers lasting and inclusive benefits for all,” he concluded . The World Bank financing will support the Kyrgyz government’s reforms across three main areas: Energy Sector : The reforms seek to modernize the energy sector, expand access, and support broader economic transformation. Key measures include revising electricity and heating rates while safeguarding vulnerable households, increasing transparency, and attracting private investment in renewable energy. Social Services and Resilience : The reforms aim to ensure that economic growth benefits vulnerable populations. The focus will be on improving education outcomes, scaling up targeted social programs, and modernizing water infrastructure while addressing regional disparities and promoting equitable access to services. Fiscal Sustainability and Business Environment : The reforms aim to strengthen fiscal stability and create a more favorable environment for private investment. Measures include modernizing key legislation to enhance transparency, competition, and investor confidence. The First Sustainable and Inclusive Growth Development Policy Operation is financed through the International Development Association (IDA) , the World Bank Group’s concessional lending arm. The funding package consists of a $68 million zero-interest credit, to be repaid over 50 years, and a $33million zero-interest, shorter-maturity loan with a 12-year repayment term and a 6-year grace period during which no repayments are required. This combination of highly concessional and low-cost financing aims to provide the Kyrgyz Republic with affordable and sustainable financial support for its development priorities. The World Bank Group’s mission is to end extreme poverty and promote shared prosperity on a livable planet. The Bank’s program in the Kyrgyz Republic currently consists of 25 projects, supporting the modernization and development of various sectors, with commitments of $1.4 billion. PRESS RELEASE NO: 2025/ECA/108 Contacts In Bishkek Jyldyz Djakypova jdjakypova@worldbank.org RELATED Kyrgyz Republic - First Sustainable and Inclusive Growth Development Policy Operation The World Bank in the Kyrgyz Republic Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×