How Digitalization, New Tech Are Transforming Ukraine’s Universities Who We Are News This page in: English Українська This page in: English Українська FEATURE STORY November 6, 2025 How Digitalization, New Tech Are Transforming Ukraine’s Universities Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Investments under the World Bank-supported project are transforming Ukraine’s higher education with cutting-edge equipment and digital systems. Anna Brodarska, a master's student at I.I. Mechnikov Odesa National University in Ukraine, is observing the commissioning of a new liquid chromatograph. Anna carefully monitors the system’s parameter settings — pressure, eluent flow rate, and more. She is preparing to enter a PhD program, where the modern liquid chromatograph will become a key tool in her research. "I plan to write my dissertation in the field of chromatography, so this newly-acquired equipment will be an important step toward my future achievements," shares Anna. Technical Modernization: An Investment in Science The new chromatograph is important for both chemistry and biology students, as it is used to analyze pharmaceuticals and food products, a vital function for a port city like Odesa through which oil and grain transit routes pass. The liquid chromatograph was purchased as part of the laboratory equipment modernization program under the joint project of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine and the World Bank, “ Ukraine Improving Higher Education for Results Project ” (UIHERP). Ukraine’s higher education institutions had outdated facilities and infrastructure, as well as obsolete teaching and laboratory equipment. The war has destroyed many educational and research buildings, only exacerbating these problems. Investments in modernization are equipping Ukrainian students and researchers with world-class tools to advance science and medicine – watch the video to see how this transformation is happening. The lack of practical training on such modern instruments among our researchers could directly impact our ability to refine new skills, explore innovative methodologies, and advance in science as a whole. Anna Brodarska Master's student, I.I. Mechnikov Odesa National University, Ukraine As part of the UIHERP project, the World Bank invested $200 million to modernize Ukrainian universities and purchase modern laboratory equipment. So far, $3.3 million worth of equipment – mainly for chemistry, biology and engineering laboratories – has been delivered to 43 universities, covering nearly 103,000 students. This equipment includes liquid chromatographs, spectrophotometers, centrifuges, thermal cyclers, and digital systems for managing the educational process. The first robotic bioprinter in Eastern Europe was launched at Karazin University in Kharkiv. This bioprinter allows both students and experienced researchers to create implants and tissue equivalents – such as skin, cornea, bone, and cartilage - which can be used in transplantology, reconstructive surgery, regenerative medicine, traumatology, orthopedics, cardiac surgery, dentistry, and in the testing of new pharmaceuticals. The launch of the bioprinter at Karazin University opens a new horizon for the development of medical bioengineering and the training of a new generation of specialists. This step demonstrates the potential of Ukrainian universities to be at the forefront of scientific research and to implement advanced educational practices at the level of global standards. Tetiana Kahanovska Rector, V.N. Karazin Kharkiv National University, Ukraine UIHERP also supports institutions that encourage female students to pursue STEM disciplines. We have many young women actively engaged in science. They not only receive practical and theoretical training in their discipline, but also participate in extracurricular research. They write numerous scientific articles, which become the foundation of their thesis projects and future dissertations. Anna Brodarska Master's student, I.I. Mechnikov Odesa National University, Ukraine Digitalization: a new format of education Education in Ukraine continues despite daily air raid sirens and heavy shelling, including testing sessions for prospective university students. The Ukrainian Center for Educational Quality Assessment has conducted four large computer-based assessments since February 2022, when the invasion began. Some of this year's summer sessions took place amid extensive nightly shelling. Examination centers were set up at institutions equipped with shelters. In some regions, testing was conducted directly in shelters, allowing applicants to continue working even during prolonged air raid sirens. It was possible to hold this testing because of the extensive digitalization of the educational testing processes, which was supported by UIHERP. Universities have received server equipment, multimedia systems, and software for managing learning and research. Digital platforms allow for training and exam taking regardless of the participant's location. This has been especially important for applicants from temporarily occupied territories or those who have been forcibly displaced. Digital exams and learning platforms are opening doors for hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian students to access higher education anywhere – watch the video to learn more. This year, 289,696 participants took the National Multi-Subject Test for admission to bachelor's programs at Ukraine's universities, while 156,665 people participated in the tests for master's and postgraduate studies. Also, 33 European countries have supported Ukraine's efforts to digitalize testing, allowing Ukrainian youth abroad to apply to domestic higher education institutions. Before the war, our exams were on paper. The war forced us to find a different approach to ensure equal conditions for all participants. Digitalization made it possible to access the testing program from shelters and testing sites, regardless of where you are in Ukraine or even abroad. Svitlana Sakaieva Director, Kyiv Regional Center for Educational Quality Assessment, Ukraine Automated test scoring eases educators' workload, speeds up result processing, reduces the risk of errors, and ensures fairness. Digital systems track user actions, enabling audits and boosting trust in exam outcomes. “Electronic exams are an independent selection process for candidates. The requirements are the same for everyone, and the approach is unified. The participant can choose any number of institutions to apply to," says Svitlana. Digitalization also supports distance learning, secure document handling, and data analytics - especially vital during martial law when many had to evacuate or work remotely. Modernizing universities through digital exams and inclusive practices helps Ukrainian students meet global standards, advance research, and join international academic communities. These investments are laying the foundation for a stronger education system that will help power Ukraine’s recovery. RELATED Ukraine Improving Higher Education for Results Project The World Bank in Ukraine Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×