Vietnam in 2012: Lower Inflation Amidst Slower Growth --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Vietnam in 2012: Lower Inflation Amidst Slower Growth December 26, 2012 This page in: English Tiếng Việt Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Key Findings from Taking Stock - an update on Vietnam's recent economic developments (December 2012) While Vietnam is enjoying relatively stable macroeconomic conditions, its economy is slowing down in absence of tangible progress on the restructuring agenda. • Vietnam’s economy is projected to grow at 5.2 percent in 2012, its slowest growth rate in a decade. The economy is expected to recover to 5.5 percent in 2013. • The year-on-year inflation fell from 23 percent in August 2011 to 7 percent in November 2012. Sectors where prices administratively controlled –health and medical services, energy, education and transport -- have experienced higher and more volatile inflation than those sectors where prices are determined mostly by market forces. • Total export turnover between January and October 2012 is estimated at $93.5 billion, an increase of 18.4 percent from the same period last year. In 2012, Vietnam is expected to record the highest rate of export growth among developing East Asia. • Imports have slowed down significantly given the sluggish growth. Import spending in the year to October is estimated at $93.8 billion, up 6.8 percent compared to 26 percent in the same period of 2011. • Vietnam is expected to post its largest ever trade and current account surpluses. The trade deficit was only 0.4 percent of GDP in 2011 and is expected to increase to a surplus of 4.7 percent in 2012. • The current account balance has improved, from a huge deficit of 11.9 percent of GDP in 2008 to a minor surplus of 0.2 percent in 2011 and is projected to report a record surplus of 2.7 percent in 2012. • Revenue in the first three quarters declined by 0.6 percent compared to the same period last year, however, government expenditure has remained on track. • Inefficiencies in state-owned enterprises, banks, and public investments have pulled down Vietnam’s long-term growth potential. The government has prioritized reforms in these areas, but progress needs to accelerate. RELATED WORLD BANK Get the full report: Taking Stock: An update on Vietnam's recent Economic Developments December 2012 East Asia and Pacific Economic Update, December 2012 Consultative Groupd Meeting for Vietnam December 2012 Get all previous Taking Stock reports Viet Nam East Asia Pacific Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.