Thailand: Development news, research, data | World Bank Where We Work This page in: English ไทย This page in: English ไทย --> The World Bank In Thailand Thailand is one of the great development success stories. In October 2026, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank Group Annual Meetings will take place in Bangkok presenting an opportunity to showcase the vibrant economies of Thailand and the region. Thailand Home Overview COVID-19 Featured Country Climate and Development Report Climate-Smart Investments Can Put Thailand on a High-Income Trajectory Thailand faces mounting climate risks, but smart development can open new economic opportunities, the World Bank says in its new Country Climate and Development Report. Climate-Smart Investments Can Put Thailand on a High-Income Trajectory Press Release World Bank Appoints Carlos Felipe Jaramillo as Vice President for East Asia and Pacific World Bank Appoints Carlos Felipe Jaramillo as Vice President for East Asia and Pacific FOLLOW US Thailand to host the IMF-WBG Annual Meetings 2026 Follow the official Facebook page for latest news of this event, key global economic topics, and various upcoming activities. Thailand to host the IMF-WBG Annual Meetings 2026 Thailand At-A-Glance Thailand became an upper-middle income economy in 2011 . Over the last four decades, Thailand has made remarkable progress in social and economic development, moving from a low-income country to an upper-income country in less than a generation. Overview Data Data Project --> Socio-economic Reintegration Project The project provided psychosocial and livelihoods support to people who were affected by security-related laws in Southern Thailand View All Projects Research View All Research Report Thailand Economic Monitors Thailand Economic Monitors Report Shaping a Cooler Bangkok Shaping a Cooler Bangkok Report Towards a Green and Resilient Thailand Towards a Green and Resilient Thailand Report Thailand Public Revenue and Spending Assessment Thailand Public Revenue and Spending Assessment Blogs View All Blogs View All Blogs Experts --> Melinda Good Division Director for Thailand and Myanmar Melinda Good --> Kiatipong Ariyapruchya Senior Country Economist for Thailand Kiatipong Ariyapruchya --> Kwanpadh Suddhi-Dhamakit Senior Country Officer Kwanpadh Suddhi-Dhamakit View All Experts Stay Connected News & Events What's New View All What's New Latest Events View All Events In Depth Thailand Young Economist Contest 2025 This year’s entries showcased bold ideas and fresh perspectives, highlighting the power of youth in shaping a more inclusive and digitally-driven future for Thailand. Thailand Young Economist Contest 2025 Fostering Foundational Skills in Thailand A new report reveals a severe skills crisis in Thailand, where a significant number of youths and adults lack essential reading literacy, digital, and socioemotional skills. Fostering Foundational Skills in Thailand Empowering Thai Cities for Sustainable Growth Take a look at how five cities in Thailand are collaborating with the World Bank to mobilize finance for urban infrastructure development and sustainable growth. Empowering Thai Cities for Sustainable Growth Bridging the Gap: Inequality and Jobs in Thailand Focus on skills, education, regional development needed to create a more equal society in Thailand. Bridging the Gap: Inequality and Jobs in Thailand Thailand World Bank Group Archives Basic historical information and photos of WBG-Thailand partnership. Thailand World Bank Group Archives 70 Years in Thailand Throughout seven decades, the World Bank and partners have worked towards improving social and economic development in Thailand. 70 Years in Thailand Supporting Thailand’s Climate Goals through the PMR The World Bank’s Partnership for Market Readiness supported Thailand to effectively reduce the country’s greenhouse gas emissions. Supporting Thailand’s Climate Goals through the PMR Plastic Waste Material Flow Analysis for Thailand Despite ongoing efforts in Thailand, plastic waste leaking into the marine environment remains a significant problem. Plastic Waste Material Flow Analysis for Thailand Combating Marine Plastic Pollution in ASEAN The World Bank will work with ASEAN to strengthen policies governing the production and use of plastics in Southeast Asia. Combating Marine Plastic Pollution in ASEAN Stay connected, sign up for our: EAP Thailand Newsletter Email Alerts on country news, projects, and research First Name I agree with the terms of the Privacy Notice and consent to my personal data being processed, to the extent necessary, to subscribe to the selected updates. Please enter a valid email address. Please enter a valid email address. EAP Thailand Newsletter We’ve just sent you an email. Please check your inbox and confirm your email address. EAP Thailand Newsletter You are already subscribed to this newsletter. Email Alerts on country news, projects, and research We’ve just sent you an email. Please check your inbox and confirm your email address. Email Alerts on country news, projects, and research You are already subscribed to this newsletter. Work With Us In Thailand Jobs Procurement Report Fraud or Corruption Additional Resources Related World Bank Thailand Brochure Jobs at World Bank View All Multimedia Country Office Contacts Bangkok 30th Floor, Siam Piwat Tower, 989 Rama 1 Road, Pathumwan, Bangkok 10330 Tel: +662-686-8300 Fax: +662-686-8301 thailand@worldbank.org Washington DC 1818 H Street, NW, Washington DC 20433 Tel: +1-202-473-4709 eapnews@worldbank.org This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×