Slovenia Increases Contribution to World Bank’s IDA by 30% Who We Are News This page in: English Français العربية 中文 Español This page in: English Français العربية 中文 Español PRESS RELEASE July 1, 2025 Slovenia Increases Contribution to World Bank’s IDA by 30% Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Ljubljana, July 1 2025 — Slovenia has announced a 30% increase in its contribution to the World Bank's International Development Association (IDA), reinforcing its commitment to supporting the world's poorest countries. The enhanced commitment was formalized at a ceremony with Klemen Boštjančič, Minister of Finance of Slovenia and Akihiko Nishio, World Bank Vice President for Development Finance. “This 30% increase in our IDA contribution isn't just about numbers—it's about recognizing that our prosperity is intertwined with global prosperity,” said Klemen Boštjančič, Minister of Finance of Slovenia. We're not just writing a check; we're investing in the belief that every nation deserves the chance to unlock its potential, just as we once did.” “The World Bank has long been a trusted partner to Slovenia and values the country's continued leadership in supporting global development efforts through institutions like IDA,” said Akihiko Nishio, World Bank Vice President for Development Finance, who oversees IDA. "This 30% increase demonstrates exceptional leadership in international development and will help low-income countries address their most pressing development challenges." Established in 1960, IDA works with 78 low-income countries through grants and zero to low-interest loans to promote economic development, increase productivity and thus raise standards of living across the globe. IDA is replenished every three years, and the 21st round of IDA negotiations concluded in December 2024. The financing supports a range of development activities, like water security, digital economy, digital governance, social assistance reform, early childhood education and care, health, fiscal effectiveness, competitiveness, and green growth. These interventions pave the way toward equality, economic growth, job creation, higher incomes, and better living conditions. For media inquiries, please contact: In Washington : Noreyana Fernando, +1607-279-7973, sfernando5@worldbank.org , In Ljubljana : Tina Hojnik, Tina.Hojnik@gov.si, +386 70 559 024 For more information, please visit: https://ida.worldbank.org/en/replenishments/road-to-IDA21 Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/IDA.WBG/ X: @WBG_IDA PRESS RELEASE NO: 2026/003/DFI Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×