Curbing Air Pollution in Mongolia’s Capital --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Curbing Air Pollution in Mongolia’s Capital April 25, 2012 This page in: English Монгол Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> In Mongolia’s capital, air pollution is 6-7 times higher than the most lenient World Health Organization standards. STORY HIGHLIGHTS Mongolia’s capital Ulaanbaatar is one the world’s most polluted cities – its “harmful dust” is 6-7 times higher than the most lenient World Health Organization standards. Luckily, the issue is drawing more attention – International organizations including the World Bank are working with the Mongolian government to find solutions. A newly-launched project will help local residents install more energy-efficient stoves and boilers & make the urban district heating system more eco-friendly. Gerelchimeg lives in one of the “ ger areas” of Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia’s capital. Ger means nomadic tent in Mongolian – former herders who lost their domestic animals to harsh winters or who are looking for better job opportunities brought their gers to the city and settled on the close-in city outskirts, without piped water, sanitation or basic city infrastructure. Even worse, dwellers of ger areas like Gerelchimeg have to breathe the thick, toxic smog of the city – when breathing, their lungs act like air filters, catching and storing the harmful dust which scientists call “Particulate Matter” (PM). PM that is smaller than 2.5 microns or “PM2.5” can cause severe respiratory illnesses. A newly-published report by the World Bank presents findings on Ulaanbaatar’s air pollution and its impact on health. Air pollution was monitored year round in Ulaanbaatar’s ger areas for the first time during the study. The calculated exposure of the population to PM2.5 in the city was found to be, on average throughout the year, 10 times higher than the Mongolian Air Quality Standards and 6-7 times higher than the most lenient World Health Organization targets. Ulaanbaatar’s air pollution comes from many sources – dust from the desert, unpaved roads and open soil surfaces, lack of vegetation, ash and emissions from coal stoves, power plants, boilers, and vehicles… But coal and wood burning by the 175,000 households in ger areas for cooking and heating contributes to the severity of air pollution in wintertime – summer air pollution is much lower than in winter. "Today, children are suffering from many unfamiliar illnesses caused by air pollution. As a mother I am very worried about my children’s health and my neighbors’ newborns,” Gerelchimeg says. “I don’t want my children to be sick only because they are living in ger areas.” While people migrate to the capital to seek a share of the growth the country is undergoing, it also puts the city under environmental stress. International organizations including Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC), Asian Development Bank, Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, donor funds implemented by the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ), UNDP/UNEP, the Netherlands, France, Korea as well as the World Bank are working with the Mongolian government to find solutions. Taking Action With the support of the World Bank, the Government of Mongolia has mobilized about $45 million in donor assistance. The Bank also approved an additional US$15 million credit for the Ulaanbaatar Clean Air Project , which is implemented by the Ulaanbaatar Municipality. The study finds that reducing air pollution in Ulaanbaatar will require sustained efforts. To achieve Mongolia Air Quality Standards, particulate emissions would need to be reduced by 94% from ger areas, suspended soils and boilers combined. But certain measures can have visible impacts – if PM emissions from ger areas are reduced by 80%, the annual average concentrations of PM2.5 and PM10 (slightly larger particles that lodge in the throat and upper respiratory tract) could be reduced by about one quarter. So, for the short term, the Ulaanbaatar Clean Air Project will help replace stoves and low-pressure boilers used now by ger areas families with new models that are more energy-efficient and burn fuel more cleanly. It will provide subsidies to bring down the costs for these people, who are among the poorest and most vulnerable in the city. This is to continue a program started at a large scale by the United States Millennium Challenge Corporation. "There is no magic bullet for reducing air pollution,” says Gailius Draugelis, a lead energy specialist at the World Bank, who is leading the organization’s support for air pollution reduction in Ulaanbaatar. “Significant domestic and foreign funds have been raised to support a wide range of solutions. Enlisting the support of the citizens and the local private sector is also very important.” "Many solutions will require Ulaanbaatar citizens to change technologies and learn how to use them. The local private sector will need to supply and service these technologies,” he adds. "Also, at this stage, keeping the momentum and commitment that has been built over the past few years is critical,” he says. " Today, children are suffering from many unfamiliar illnesses caused by air pollution. As a mother I am very worried about my children’s health and my neighbors’ newborns. I don’t want my children to be sick only because they are living in ger areas.” " Gerelchimeg a mother lives in one of the “ger areas” of Ulaanbaatar Keeping the Momentum Keeping the momentum means taking short-term actions now so that people could suffer less from pollution, while preparing medium and long-term solutions that need more time to take shape. For example, apartments for the poor ger areas dwellers are a long-term solution, Draugelis points out. But who will pay for building these apartments, maintenance fees, electricity, heating, water, sewage, appliances, etc.? These are questions that need to be answered. So, in this regard, the Ulaanbaatar Clean Air Project , while supporting cleaner heating appliances over the short term, will also enable the city’s Municipality to explore affordable housing options and to improve the environmental performance and efficiency of the urban district heating system, which supplies apartments with heat and hot water. "Environmental protection has become one of the most critical tasks for our government,” says Mr. Bat, Manager of Ulaanbaatar city. "Ulaanbaatar may be the coldest capital in the world but it doesn’t need to be the most polluted too,” says Coralie Gevers, Country Manager for Mongolia, the World Bank. “Improving air quality management in Ulaanbaatar and reducing pollution concentrations would prevent illnesses, save lives and avoid enormous health costs.” RELATED WORLD BANK Download Report: Air Quality Analysis of Ulaanbaatar-Improving Air Quality to Reduce Health Impacts Project: Ulaanbaatar Clean Air Project Blog: Mongolia's growing shantytowns - the cold and toxic ger districts MULTIMEDIA Video VIDEO Mongolia: Curbing Air Pollution in the Capital City Mongolia East Asia Pacific Health Urban Development Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.