LAC Gender Impact Evaluation Initiative --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work Latin America and Caribbean BRIEF LAC Gender Impact Evaluation Initiative February 28, 2014 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Women and son in Ecuador STORY HIGHLIGHTS Agency is the ability to make choices and transform those choices into desired actions and outcomes Building agency can be a powerful and cost effective instrument to help women and girls take advantage of their assets and opportunities More knowledge is needed to understand how to promote agency and its impacts on gender equity The LAC Gender Impact Evaluation Initiative is working to fill critical knowledge gaps, highlighted by the World Development Report 2012, on the role of agency in the promotion of gender equity. The initiative is dedicated to producing research that serves as a useful resource for evidence-driven policy making. Evidence suggests that building agency can be a powerful and cost effective instrument to help women and girls take advantage of their assets and opportunities and to contribute to overall development. However, much more knowledge and evidence is needed to understand how to promote agency and its impacts on gender equity and development outcomes. The objective of the LAC Gender Impact Evaluation Initiative is to use rigorous impact evaluations to identify effective tools for measuring agency and improve our understanding of agency and gender equity in Latin America and the Caribbean. The Gender Impact Evaluation works to achieve its goals by: Implementing agency informed impact evaluations with LAC Governments and World Bank projects Providing technical assistance to Bank teams implementing impact evaluations conducted within LAC to include a gender and agency focus Disseminating evidence and partnering across sectors and stakeholders to build knowledge on gender impact evaluations. Disseminate evidence and partnering across sectors and stakeholders to build knowledge on gender impact evaluations. LAC Gender Impact Evaluations Nicaragua Social Interactions with Female Community Leaders Change Aspirations for the Future and Outcomes: In Nicaragua, social interactions with community leaders affect household attitudes and improve program impacts on human capital and productive investments. Peru TB Treatment Adherence: Does Gender Make a Difference?: In Peru, a local NGO provided psychological, social, and economic support to families affected by TB and the World Bank assessed how this changed TB treatment adherence in different ways for men and women. Haiti How does life skills and vocational training impact employment and empowerment outcomes? In Haiti, life skills training and vocational training were randomly applied and evaluators are assessing the impact on labor market entry for adolescent girls, empowerment and agency. Ecuador What is the role of agency in teenage fertility decisions? Evaluators are working with the Government of Ecuador to assess what interventions drive changes in decision making and action to deter pregnancy and why. Argentina Do infrastructure improvements impact women and men’s self-esteem differently? In Argentina, evaluators will assess how road construction and water sanitation projects affect men and women differently. Colombia What are the long term impacts of CCTs on post-secondary education and labor market opportunities for men and women? In Colombia, evaluators are tracking CCT recipients and non-recipients to assess the impacts over the long term. Bolivia How does Community Driven Development (CDD) affect empowerment and community participation for men and women? Economists are working with the government of Bolivia to assess the impacts of female and male participation in CDD. Latin America and Caribbean RELATED Africa Gender Innovation Lab Development Impact Blog EnGender Impact WDR Gender and Development SIEF Human Development Evidence to Policy RELATED WEBSITE Gender Equality WEBSITE World Bank in Latin America and the Caribbean GET INVOLVED Contact with: Facundo Cuevas, fcuevas@worldbank.org Maria Genoni, mgenoni@worldbank.org Megan Rounseville mrounseville@worldbank.org --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.