Event | Legal Briefs: Short Talks on Legal Innovations Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Legal Briefs: Short Talks on Legal Innovations Share Overview This session will present two short talks on legal innovations and projects that are making an impact in development. The Dataset of World Refugee and Asylum Policies: The talk will introduce and describe the Dataset of World Refugee and Asylum Policies (DWRAP), an innovative tool that codifies de jure asylum and refugee provisions for 193 countries from 1951-2022 into simple, quantitative, indicators. It will illustrate the content of the dataset, and will showcase the DWRAP platform, a user-friendly tool developed for making the dataset accessible by a large audience of non-technical stakeholders to use the dataset to inform their activities on refugee and asylum seekers policies. Guy Grossman , Professor, University of Pennsylvania Domenico Tabasso , Senior Economist, World Bank - UNHCR Joint Data Center on Forced Displacement Resources: Website: Dataset of World Refugee and Asylum Policies Technical Guide: Dataset of World Refugee and Asylum Policies Paper: Forced Displacement and Asylum Policy in the Developing World Democratizing Legal AI - a Model for More Efficient and Accessible Justice: This talk will highlight two French initiatives on legal AI. The Paris Bar has launched a groundbreaking project to provide free AI-powered tools to more than 14,000 lawyers for 15 months, promoting equality, efficiency, and technological inclusion in legal services. In parallel, the French Cour de cassation has developed a reflection on ethics in the use of AI by judges and built a methodology to evaluate AI in the justice system. Together, they show how legal AI can support sustainable development, bridge technological divides, and inspire innovation globally — when access is paired with rigorous evaluation. Clémence Bourillon , Judge, Cour de Cassation, France Pierre Hoffman , President, Paris Bar Association Return to the main LJD Week event website here . Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×