Transportation Framing Questions - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Back to climate , updates Transportation Framing Questions June 08, 2015 How will climate trends affect transportation systems and their future design? What parts of the transportation system will be most vulnerable to climate change? How can climate information be most effectively translated for use by transportation practitioners? How will climate adaptation need to be integrated into existing transportation management systems? What capacity currently exists for adaptation? What tools and datasets apply broadly to different transportation users and sectors? What information needs to be local and regional specific? What information and resources are necessary to enable transportation officials to effectively adapt transportation systems to climate change stresses and extreme weather events?How will transportation demands be impacted by climate change? What infrastructure changes will be needed to ensure viability of evacuation routes in coastal areas? How will the use of public transportation change during high/low temperatures, precipitation, and extreme weather? What are the thresholds for transportation decisions in a changing climate? What would “climate ready” standards look like for each sector and discipline? About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov