E-GATE: Advancing Functional Regionalism Through E-Commerce in Central Asia Who We Are News Events Events E-GATE: Advancing Functional Regionalism Through E-Commerce in Central Asia May 27, 2025 Tashkent, Uzbekistan [url]https://www.worldbank.org/en/events/2025/05/27/egate-conference[/url]"}'> Add to calendar Google Calendar Yahoo! Calendar iCal Calendar Outlook Calendar Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina OVERVIEW AGENDA & SPEAKERS PRESENTATION & PHOTOS E-commerce is rapidly transforming global trade, offering Central Asian nations a pathway to overcome geographical constraints, access new markets, and foster inclusive economic growth. Participants in the E-GATE Program signed or are in the process of signing export contracts totaling more than $23 million. Notably, $16 million of this amount was in trade between Central Asian countries. Participating micro, small, and medium enterprises began engaging with buyers in more than 70 new international markets. To advance this agenda, the "E-GATE Conference: Advancing Functional Regionalism Through E-Commerce in Central Asia" will be held on May 27, 2025, in Tashkent, Uzbekistan. This event will bring together experts to share experiences and explore mechanisms aimed at facilitating regional integration. The conference will feature an E-GATE presentation on program outcomes, followed by a high-level session on Central Asia's e-commerce focus and global trade integration. Subsequent sessions will delve into critical areas: Logistics for E-commerce, a Demo Session showcasing E-GATE beneficiaries' export experiences, and a session on Jobs for Women Enabled by Digital Technologies and E-commerce. The conference aims to share knowledge, discuss practical solutions, and foster partnerships. This combined event represents a crucial step towards strengthening regional cooperation, building enabling policy frameworks, and unlocking investment to create a resilient and inclusive digital trade ecosystem in Central Asia. The E-GATE Conference is organized by the World Bank, with support from the UK Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO). This initiative is conducted in close coordination with the Governments of Uzbekistan, Kyrgyz Republic, and Tajikistan, alongside a robust coalition of key international and local partners. These vital collaborators include the National Agency of Perspective Projects of Uzbekistan (NAPP), the Ministry of Economy and Commerce of the Kyrgyz Republic, Kyrgyz Export, the E-commerce Association of the Kyrgyz Republic, the National Association of Small and Medium Business of Tajikistan, the Uzbekistan E-Commerce Association, the Uzbekistan Sellers Association, the Association of E-commerce of Tajikistan, and private sector companies such as DHL, Uzum, Jumia, and Lenovo. Download: The Conference Agenda The Bios of Speakers Download the presentation Download the photos: Conference in Tashkent, May 27, 2025 High-level Policy Roundtable in Tashkent, May 27, 2025 RELATED E-GATE: Elevating Global Access Through E-commerce in Central Asia Press Release In English In Uzbek In Russian This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×