Russia and the World Bank: International Development Assistance --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work Russia Russia and the World Bank: International Development Assistance This page in: English Русский Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Development Cooperation Official Development Assistance International Development Association Trust Funds Programmatic Trust Funds for Europe and Central Asia World Bank Group Engagement with Russia as a Provider of Global Public Goods WBG Trust Funds financed by the Russian Federation Development Cooperation Russia has been actively shaping its development cooperation agenda for almost a decade. Following the country’s G8 presidency in 2006, the country has taken a number of important steps to increase its development cooperation efforts. Chief among these have been a significant scaling-up of Official Development Assistance (ODA) and active participation in international fora such as the Asia-Pacific Cooperation (APEC), G20, and BRICS. In June 2007, the President of the Russian Federation adopted the national aid strategy “Concept for Russia’s Participation in International Development Assistance”. This strategic document established key objectives for the country’s assistance program based on the OECD-DAC principles of ownership and alignment, predictability and transparency, accountability and monitoring, and the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). In April 2014, a new “Concept of Russia’s State Policy in the Area of International Development Assistance” was adopted, which is a logical development of the previous concept approved in 2007. Basic principles and priorities of the Russian Federation’s State Policy in the area of international development assistance remain the same. The following priority areas have been defined for Russia’s international development assistance at both the regional and global level: improving the performance of governance systems and improving conditions for trade and investment in recipient countries, building industrial and innovation capacities in recipient countries, boosting economic activity in recipient countries, establishing and strengthening national systems for combating organized crime and terrorism, supporting efforts on post-conflict peacebuilding, implementation of social and economic projects in recipient countries. Official Development Assistance Russia’s Official Development Assistance steadily increased from about $100 million in 2004 to $1188 million in 2017 . The latter amount combines both bilateral and multilateral ODA, including contributions through the World Bank Group. For Russia, priority areas of cooperation are health, food security, agriculture, human development, education, and institutional capacity building. During the 2008-09 global financial crisis, Russia’s development aid contributions amounted to $785 million. Also during this period, Russia initiated the establishment of an innovative crisis response cooperation mechanism: the Eurasian Fund for Stabilization and Development , with Russia’s pledge totaling $7.5 billion. Part of Russia’s ODA is provided through multilateral channels, including the World Bank Group, the United Nations system, major global initiatives, and special-purpose funds. International Development Association Russia has strengthened its global role through extended commitment to multilateral development mechanisms. Since 2004, Russia has steadily increased its assistance to the International Development Association (IDA) and has supported a number of global development initiatives by contributing to various multilateral agencies, including trust funds administered by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD). Russia has been a partner to IDA since the ninth replenishment (referred to as “IDA9”) in 1997. IDA17 was the focus for Russia’s engagement with the World Bank in 2013, when Russia expressed strong support for IDA as an important multilateral mechanism for providing assistance to the poorest countries. The Russian Federation supported IDA at the Ministerial level using its position as the G20 Presidency, and hosted the IDA17 replenishment meeting in Moscow in December 2013. Trust Funds A Trust Fund (TF) is a financing arrangement established with contributions from one or more external donors or partners and, in some cases, from the World Bank Group, to support development-related activities including capacity building. Russia has 22 IDA/IBRD Trust funds, 14 of which are currently active. Pledges to these programs have reached a total of almost $267 million. Russia’s IRBD-administered trust funds are focused on the themes of infectious disease control, quality of basic education, energy access, food crisis response, and social support programs. Open full version of the infographic (PDF) Also Russia, alongside with other donors for international development assistance, contributed to a number of important global initiatives, including debt relief for the most heavily indebted countries and fight against AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. Russia’s trust fund portfolio is particularly focused on building knowledge and expertise in developing countries through trust funds such as the Europe and Central Asia (ECA) Capacity Development Program, ECA Statistical Capacity Building, Russian Education Aid for Development, Public Finance Management, and others. Russian trust funds finance activities such as technical assistance, training, peer-to-peer knowledge exchange, and the development of toolkits and methodologies. Programmatic Trust Funds for Europe and Central Asia The Programmatic Public Financial Management (PFM) Trust Fund of $18 million supports research and analysis, training, institutional development and capacity building programs in countries across the Europe and Central Asia (ECA) region to strengthen their PFM systems. The ECA Capacity Development Multi-Donor Trust Fund of $23 million finances projects and programs in low-income countries of the ECA region with a view to improving the quality and speed of their preparation. The trust fund uses multiple approaches to strengthen policy and project development capacity. The ECA Statistical Capacity Development Multi-Donor Trust Fund of $15 million addresses capacity and financial constraints challenges faced by the statistical systems of countries in Eastern Europe and the CIS region – with emphasis on IDA borrowing countries. World Bank Group Engagement with Russia as a Provider of Global Public Goods Enhanced engagement with Russia as a provider of global public goods will be central to the World Bank Group’s future cooperation with the country. The involvement of the Group in Russia’s presidencies of APEC in 2012 and G20 in 2013 allowed the organization to play an active role in the formulation and implementation of the global development agenda. The current cooperation between the World Bank Group and Russia enables the organization to provide support and advice to its client not only on domestic economic development efforts, but also on international and global development issues such as social protection, food security, and global health – thereby contributing to the enhancement of Russia’s participation in the provision of global public goods. Open full version of the infographic (PDF) World Bank Group Trust Funds financed by the Russian Federation Participating Countries Objectives Paid Russia's contribution (US$) 1 EBOLA RECOVERY AND RECONSTRUCTION TRUST FUND Objective: to provide flexible financing for Africa to respond to the economic and social impacts across sectors, including supporting the building of resilient health systems, in light of the unprecedented Ebola outbreak in Africa. Active 3,000,000 2 NUTRITION-SENSITIVE SOCIAL PROTECTION AND LABOR RSR Objective: to strengthen the linkages between social protection and nutrition by bridging the two sectoral agendas through supporting the development of nutrition-sensitive social protection labor systems in the World Bank client countries Active 2,150,000 3 DEBT MANAGEMENT FACILITY (PHASE II) Objective: The primary program development objective is to help strengthen debt management capacity and institutions in DMF II eligible countries as defined in the Charter. The DMF provides capacity building to support growth and poverty reduction in eligible developing countries by strengthening their capacity to manage debts effectively. Active 500,000 Out of commitment 3 500 000 4 TRANSPARENCY IN TRADE Objective: This initiative will leverage past work done by the Bank with partner institutions in areas of systems development, data collection and capacity building leading to a better understanding and greater cooperation between the organizations (ITC and UNCTAD) and eliminate duplication of effort. The end goal is creation of a public good trade system that will enable countries identify new trade opportunities and become more open by freeing up trade restrictions Active 1,500,000 5 ECASTAT- SUPPORT STATISTICAL CAPACITY BUILDING IN ECA Europe and Central Asia (ECA) Objective: To address the capacity and financial constraints of the statistical systems of countries in Eastern Europe and the CIS region. Active 15,000,000 6 ECA REGION CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT Europe and Central Asia (ECA) Objective: To improve the quality and speed of project preparation in low income countries of ECA region. Active 19,500,000 7 EPFM-ECA REGIONAL PUBLIC FINANCE MANAGEMENT Europe and Central Asia (ECA) Objective: To support improvements in public financial management in Europe and Central Asia (ECA), with emphasis on IDA borrowing countries, as an important element of stronger governance and improved conditions for economic and social development in ECA Active 18,000,000 8 PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT AND PEER-ASSISTED LEARNING (PEMPAL) Europe and Central Asia (ECA) Objective: To facilitate regional exchange of knowledge and experience among the countries of the ECA region on public expenditure management (PEM) based on the principles of peer assisted learning, and using benchmarking as a tool to stimulate capacity building and the development of network of peers, with a particular focus on IDA countries Active 8,400,000 9 SOUTH-SOUTH EXPERIENCE EXCHANGE FACILITY Objective: To meet the immediate practical operational knowledge gaps by catalyzing the sharing of developing country experiences between practitioners; document and disseminate lessons learned through an experiences exchange library Active 1,500,000 10 AFGHANISTAN RECONSTRUCTION Afghanistan Objective: To finance the reconstruction priorities of Afghanistan. Of US$ 4 million, US$2 million are allocated for the Strengthening Higher Education Program (SHEP), and the Kabul Polytechnic University in particular Active 4,000,000 11 RAPID SOCIAL RESPONSE Objective: To safeguard lives and livelihoods during and after the global crises by promoting social protection measures such as social safety nets and maintenance of access to basic health, nutrition, education and other vital services for communities, especially poor and vulnerable groups Active Fully disbursed 50,000,000 12 ESME-ENERGY SME SUPPORT TO SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (SSA) Mali, Tanzania, Rwanda, Senegal, Kenya, Botswana Objective: To provide additional financing and technical assistance to Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in selected countries in Sub-Saharan Africa to strengthen their capacity in providing energy services to poor communities Active 30,000,000 13 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS RESPONSE PROGRAM Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan Objective: To reduce the negative impact of high food prices on the lives of the poor in a timely manner, support the Tajik and Kyrgyz governments in the design of sustainable policies that mitigate the adverse impacts of more volatile food prices on poverty, and support broad-based growth in productivity and market participation in agriculture to ensure an adequate supply response as part of a sustained improvement in food supply Legally closed 15,000,000 14 RUSSIA EDUCATION AID FOR DEVELOPMENT (READ) Angola, Armenia, Ethiopia, Mozambique, Zambia, Vietnam, Tajikistan, Kyrgyz Republic Objective: To support the improvement of education quality and student learning outcomes through the design, implementation, and use of robust student assessment systems Legally closed 32,000,000 15 RUSSIA EDUCATION AID FOR DEVELOPMENT (READ II) Armenia, Cambodia, India/South Asia, Kyrgyz Republic, Mongolia, Nepal, Tajikistan, Vietnam Objective: To improve the capacity of Recipient countries to design and use student assessment systems, and to enhance the evidence base available to countries in general in this topic area Active 6,000,000 16 EDUCATION FOR ALL-FAST TRACK INITIATIVE (EFA-FTI CATALYTIC TF) Objective: To mobilize resources for low-income countries with sound education sector plans and domestic commitment to achieve the MDG for Primary Education Active 10,000,000 17 AVIAN AND HUMAN INFLUENZA FACILITY (AHIF) Objective: To minimize the risk and socio-economic impact of avian influenza and of a possible human pandemic influenza in developing countries lacking adequate domestic resources and capacity to combat the disease Legally closed 3,000,000 18 EDUCATION PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT FUND (EPDF) Objective : To increase the number of low-income countries with sound and sustainable education sector plans, embedded in Poverty Reduction Strategies, which prioritize the achievement of the MDG for primary education with gender equity by 2015, focusing on countries that do not have their own capacity and lack donor support to develop and undertake a credible national education sector plan. Legally closed 5,200,000 19 FINANCIAL LITERACY AND EDUCATION (FLIT) Mexico, Colombia, Namibia, Zambia, Malawi, Uruguay, Papua New Guinea, Brazil, India, Uganda, South Africa Objective: To improve financial literacy of individuals and households in order to promote understanding of, and informed participation in, social insurance and social risk management schemes Legally closed 15,000,000 20 FREE STANDING - COFINANCING/BOOSTER PROGRAM FOR MALARIA CONTROL Mozambique, Zambia sub TF070783- Malaria Booster Program Objective: To strengthen malaria control efforts in two Booster Program – Mozambique, Zambia Legally closed 15,000,000 21 PROVISION OF JUNIOR PROFESSIONAL OFFICERS FROM THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION Objective: the program is designed to bring young professionals from Russia into the Bank in accordance with the diversity objectives of the institution. *The program was delivered under the umbrella of TF070783 –Booster Program for Malaria Control Legally closed 254,085 22 NICARAGUA COMMERCIAL DEBT BUYBACK PROGRAM Objective: to reduce external commercial debt, financial sustainability and creditworthiness by contributing to attract domestic and foreign investments. Legally closed 5,000,000 TOTAL 267,654,085 Open full version of the infographic (PDF) Russia Europe and Central Asia Urban Development RUSSIA AS A DONOR Learn more how Russia is shaping it's unique profile in addressing the key challenges of the poorest countries. Russia: Improving International Development Assistance through Knowledge Exchange READ: Building Capacity for International Development Aid in Education Increasing Food Security in Eurasia and Beyond through Shared Knowledge and Expertise Assisting Russia's educators to bolster development skills Infographic: Russia as a Donor Europe and Central Asia: Capacity Development Trust Fund Contacts Marina Vasilieva T: +7 (495) 745-7000 E: mvasilieva@worldbank.org --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.