Ready, Steady, Go! Inspiring Design of Learning Environments for Early Childhood Education and Care --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Ready, Steady, Go! Inspiring Design of Learning Environments for Early Childhood Education and Care May 31, 2012 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> STORY HIGHLIGHTS This International Workshop is organised by OECD/CELE and The World Bank The event is organized in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, Department of Education of the City of Moscow, Ministry of Education of Sakha Republic and Skolkovo Foundation For further information, contact Hannah.vonAhlefeld@oecd.org 31 May - 1 June 2012, Moscow, Russian Federation: This workshop will focus on current research on linkages between quality of facilities and developmental outcomes of young children; case studies of exemplary early childhood education and care facilities; and examples of national and regional frameworks relating to their design and construction. The workshop is co-organised by the OECD Centre for Effective Learning Environments (formerly the OECD Programme on Educational Building) and the World Bank, in co-operation with the National Ministry of Education and Science, the Department of Education of the City of Moscow, the Ministry of Education of Sakha (Yakutia) Republic and Skolkovo Foundation. For further information, contact Hannah.vonAhlefeld@oecd.org OECD Centre for Effective Learning Environments (CELE) CELE promotes the exchange and analysis of policy, research and experience in all matters related to educational facilities. The planning and design of educational facilities – schools, colleges and universities – has an impact which is significant but hard to quantify on educational outcomes. Building and running those facilities accounts for a substantial part of public educational expenditure in OECD countries. The Centre has three objectives: Improve the quality and suitability of educational buildings. Ensure that the best use is made of the resources devoted to planning, building, running and maintaining educational buildings. Give early warning of the impact on educational building of trends in education and in society as a whole. CELE's work is conducted through a set of activities determined by the Centre's Board of Participants. Its mission is to ensure that the maximum educational benefit is obtained from past and future investment in educational buildings and equipment, and that building stock is planned and managed in the most efficient way. RELATED WORLD BANK World Bank in Russia Story: Advice on Improving Preschool Education in Russia EXTERNAL OECD: Centre for Effective Learning Environments (CELE) Workshop Agenda (PDF) MULTIMEDIA Video VIDEO Advice on Improving Preschool Education in Russia Russia Europe and Central Asia Education Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.