New Trade Portal Makes it Easier to do Business in Bangladesh --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY New Trade Portal Makes it Easier to do Business in Bangladesh March 17, 2016 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> photo: Abir Abdullah/Asian Development Bank STORY HIGHLIGHTS With support from the World Bank, Bangladesh is improving trade facilitation with a recently launched trade portal aimed at boosting growth and investments. The Bangladesh trade portal makes it easier and less costly for businesses to import and export goods. With the launch of the trade portal, Bangladesh is moving towards full compliance with a new WTO agreement that asks countries to promptly publish trade-related information in an easily accessible and transparent manner. BANGLADESH, March 17, 2016 – With the launch of its new trade portal, the government of Bangladesh’s is making import and export information more easily accessible to traders interested in doing business in the country. The portal, a website that provides documents and information on the trade process, is hosted by the Ministry of Commerce with support from the World Bank Group and is expected to accelerate growth in Bangladesh and increase investments. The Bangladesh Trade Portal will make it easier for traders and investors to comply with regulatory requirements associated with the importation and exportation of goods as well as help Bangladesh comply with the World Trade Organization’s (WTO) Bali Agreement on Trade Facilitation. The Agreement calls for countries to tackle barriers and liberalize trade. “I hope businessmen will immensely benefit from the use of the trade portal. We would be able to connect to the rest of the world with this portal,” Commerce Minister Tofail Ahmed said at the launch ceremony in Dhaka. He also highlighted how the portal is another sign of Bangladesh’s advancement towards greater digital connectivity. Currently, it takes most traders in Bangladesh between one and five days to obtain information on rules and regulations relating to their business. “The trade portal is a one-stop point of information, which will improve transparency and accountability,” said Ashish Narain, the World Bank Group’s head of the South Asia Regional Integration for Trade and Investment team. Now, with only a few clicks the trade portal provides information relating to existing trade regulations and procedures, including but not limited to laws, administrative procedures, guidance notes, applicable fees, forms, licenses, permits and penalties applicable in case of breach. Users can view the portal in both English and Bangla. The ministry hopes that the portal will help to encourage overseas investors that are interested in trading with Bangladesh and provide them with market and regulatory information to help them export to and import from the country. The portal has the potential to benefit a large number of traders, according to the government. As of June 2015, there were 48.347 million internet subscribers in Bangladesh with more than 46 million using their mobile to connect. The Bangladesh Trade Portal is supported through the World Bank Group’s Trade Facilitation Support Program . This global facility helps countries implement their international commitments on trade facilitation, specifically following the WTO’s Trade Facilitation Agreement. Bangladesh Trade RELATED WORLD BANK Bangladesh Trade Portal Trade Facilitation Support Program Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.