Scaling Up and Systems Change Who We Are News Video July 18, 2024 Scaling Up and Systems Change Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina On June 10, 2024, the World Bank’s Coalitions for Reforms (C4R) team, in collaboration with IMAGO Global Grassroots , supported by the World Bank’s Governance & Institutions Umbrella Program, organized an event titled “Scaling Up and Systems Change – A Webinar and Interactive Clinic on Building Coalitions.” This event delved into the concepts and tools necessary for building coalitions aimed at systems change. It included discussions on the theory behind systems thinking in the context of scaling up, supplemented by a practical case study using system diagnostic tools. ( View Presentation ). The event featured insights from Isabel Guerrero, Siddhant Gokhale, and Jossie Fahsbender, co-authors of the book “ Scaling Up Development Impact .” This book draws on a decade of experience in aiding grassroots organizations to scale their impact, integrating learnings from a Harvard Kennedy School course. By merging concepts from economics, psychology, systems thinking, design thinking, and adaptive evaluation and management, the book offers a comprehensive framework for scaling up with practical relevance. Explore further resources about the book: Scaling Up Development Impact Book Book Excerpt at Stanford Social Innovation Review Book Launch with the Center for Global Development Book Launch with the Scaling Up Community of Practice About IMAGO IMAGO Global Grassroots works with organizations around the world to build capacity and scale impact while taking into account the complexities of the different contexts and systems in which they operate. SPEAKERS MODERATOR ROBY SENDEROWITSCH, Practice Manager for Public Administration, Governance Global Practice, World Bank SPEAKERS ISABEL GUERRERO, Co-Founder and Executive Director, IMAGO Global Grassroots, Harvard Kennedy School SIDDHANT GOKHALE, Knowledge Manager, IMAGO Global Grassroots JOSSIE FAHSBENDER, Program Manager, IMAGO Global Grassroots SPEAKERS’ BIOS Isabel Guerrero is an economist, a psychoanalyst, and the co-founder of IMAGO Global Grassroots, which helps organizations scale up. Since 2014, she has taught the course “Scaling Up and Systems Change for Development Impact” at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government. Prior to this, Isabel worked for 30 years at the World Bank, where she had several country director positions, including Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru and Paraguay, and later Mexico, Colombia, and India. Then, she was Vice-President for the South Asia region for five years. She holds a master’s degree from the London School of Economics and graduated from the Washington Psychoanalytic Institute. Siddhant Gokhale is a knowledge manager at IMAGO Global Grassroots, where he built the knowledge function. He co-authored a recent theoretical paper on the Adaptive Evaluation methodology and advises IMAGO’s evaluation projects. He previously worked at the Behavioral Development Lab, establishing J-PAL South Asia’s first project in the state of Goa. He holds a master’s degree in public administration and international development from the Harvard Kennedy School and an MA in economics from Columbia University. Jossie Fahsbender is a program manager at IMAGO Global Grassroots, focused on advancing scaling up and Adaptive Evaluation projects in the Latin American and Global office. Previously, Jossie worked at the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank in the implementation and evaluation of projects in jobs, rural development, and agriculture. She holds a master’s degree in public administration and international development from the Harvard Kennedy School. This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×