Energizing Green Cities in Southeast Asia --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work East Asia Pacific publication Energizing Green Cities in Southeast Asia Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Energizing Green Cities in Southeast Asia -- Applying Sustainable Urban Energy and Emissions Planning The World Bank September 12, 2013 - Cities account for about two-thirds of the world’s annual energy consumption and about 70 percent of global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. In the coming decades, urbanization and income growth in developing countries are expected to push cities’ energy consumption and GHG emissions shares even higher. The East Asia and Pacific region is experiencing unprecedented rates of urbanization and population growth. In cities where the majority of people still lack basic infrastructure services and where city authorities lack resources to shift current consumption and emission trajectories, these challenges are keenly felt by millions of people every day. Energizing Green Cities in Southeast Asia: Applying Sustainable Urban Energy and Emissions Planning offers a blueprint for how EAP cities can be transformed into global engines of green growth by choosing energy-efficient solutions to meet their infrastructure needs. The book presents sustainable urban energy and emissions planning – or SUEEP – as a framework to enable collaboration among municipal governments, stakeholders, private investors and financing institutions to achieve green growth objectives at the city level. It also includes step-by-step guidance on the SUEEP framework as well as a toolkit to help city administrators and planners develop their own energy and emissions plans. Case studies in three pilot cities—Cebu City in the Philippines, Da Nang in Vietnam, and Surabaya in Indonesia—illustrate how sustainable urban energy and emissions planning (SUEEP) can help identify and prioritize green investments across all major infrastructure sectors. The book urges national and municipal governments to reform institutions, build capacity, and strengthen energy planning and governance to mainstream energy efficiency on a citywide scale and introduce low-carbon policies in fast-growing cities in the EAP region, which will define the region's energy future and its GHG footprint. Download complementary Toolkit: Stakeholder contact sheet (.doc) Stakeholder consultation record (.doc) Sample announcement from the mayor (.doc) Sample data request letter to the power company (.doc) Blank project assessment sheet (.doc) Sample project assessment sheet (.doc) Sample consultant Terms of Reference (.doc) Energy balance and GHG inventory spreadsheet (.xlsx) Project assessment and prioritization table (.xlsx) East Asia Pacific Series: Directions in Development - Environment and Sustainable Development Report and Case Studies Get the full report (.pdf) Read the report on Issuu Case Study: Surabaya, Indonesia (.pdf) Case Study: Cebu City, Philippines (.pdf) Case Study: Da Nang, Vietnam (.pdf) RELATED FEATURE STORY Energizing Green Cities: Solutions to Meet Demand and Spark Economic Growth MULTIMEDIA Video VIDEO Scaling up energy efficiency in Indonesia, the Philippines and Vietnam --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.