Coastal Flooding Featured Content - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Back to climate , updates Coastal Flooding Featured Content September 27, 2023 Coastal communities are becoming increasingly vulnerable to the risk of damage from coastal inundation. In the northeast, Hurricane Sandy was a stark reminder of the potential damage a single storm can cause. These additional resources listed below will allow you to create tools and provide information to help communities prepare for coastal inundation. Through the use of data, visualizations, and simulations, you can help people understand their exposure to coastal inundation hazards and their increased vulnerability due to population increase and sea level rise. Current Flood Risk National Flood Hazard Layer (NFHL) Viewer (FEMA) : This tool allows users to view, download, and print flood hazard data. An ArcGIS REST Service for NFHL and FEMA Flood Map Service Center product search/download portal are also available. Sea Level Rise and Coastal Flooding Sea Level Rise Viewer (NOAA Office for Coastal Management) : This tool allows users to view the potential impacts of sea level rise and coastal flooding. An ArcGIS REST Service for sea level rise is also available. New York and New Jersey Future Flood Risk Viewer Sea Level Rise Planning Tool - New Jersey and New York State (Nassau, Suffolk, and Westchester Counties): A map service providing future estimates of sea level rise for regions in New Jersey and New York State. Note: A GeoPlatform ArcGIS Online account is required to view this resource. Sea Level Rise Planning Tool - New York City (NOAA National Ocean Service, NOAA Office for Coastal Management) : A map service providing future estimates of sea level rise for New York City. An ArcGIS REST Service is also available for New York and New Jersey 2050 and 2100 and New York City 2050. Coastal Erosion and Coastal Flood Frequency Coastal Change Hazards Portal (USGS) : An interactive tool that maps the impacts of extreme storms (i.e. hurricanes, tropical storms) on water levels and inundation. It also provides estimates of sea level rise and shoreline change. Coastal Flood Frequency (NOAA Office for Coastal Management) : This dataset depicts the extent of flood-prone coastal areas based on predicted water levels exceeding specific tidal heights as issued by local National Weather Service offices. An ArcGIS REST Service for flood frequency and Sea Level Rise Data Download resource are also available. Economic and Socioeconomic Data Economics: National Ocean Watch (ENOW) Explorer (Bureau of Economic Analysis, NOAA Office for Coastal Management, Bureau of Labor Statistics) : An interactive web portal that provides time-series data on the Ocean and Great Lakes Economy, including six economic sectors that depend on the oceans and Great Lakes. ENOW is available for counties, states, and the nation in a wide variety of formats. An ArcGIS REST Service for ENOW and downloadable ENOW dataset are also available. Social Vulnerability Index (SoVI) Census Block Groups (2000) (University of South Carolina Hazards and Vulnerability Research Institute) : This index measures the social vulnerability of Census block groups to environmental hazards. An ArcGIS REST Service for SOVI is also available. Historical Hurricane Tracks NOAA Historical Hurricane Tracks (NOAA National Ocean Service, NOAA Office of Coastal Management) : This tool enables historical hurricane tracks to be searched by location, name, year, zip code, or basin. An ArcGIS REST Service is also available. International Best Track Archive for Climate Stewardship (IBTrACS) (NOAA National Centers for Environmental Information) : A collection of recent and historical tropical cyclone best track data. About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov