Updates - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Updates Previous 1 … 4 5 6 … 14 Next Tribal Nations Tools October 23, 2015 This page contains links to web-based tools, training, and guidance to help understand, analyze, and assess the vulnerabilities and resilience of Tribal Nations to climate variability, global climate change, and compounding stressors... Continued Tribal Nations Featured Content October 12, 2015 By Data.gov admins This page contains relevant content from U.S. government agencies and other sources that can help Tribal Nations and other communities understand how climate variability and/or global climate change may impact their peoples, lands, and resources and how to assist in building climate resilience strategies. Continued Tribal Nations Data October 12, 2015 By Data.gov admins Indian Lands datasets are difficult to correctly interpret, so please visit the Bureau of Indian Affairs Frequently Asked Questions to aid understanding. Other data sharing limitations to Tribal Nations data selection and thematic content are discussed in the framing questions... Continued Human Health Data August 24, 2015 Climate change threatens to increase human health risks, both physical and mental, by increasing exposure to extreme weather events, affecting the quality of essential resources such as air, food, and water, and increasing the prevalence of vector-, food-, and waterborne illnesses... Continued Ecosystem Vulnerability Data August 24, 2015 Ecosystems are essential to the survival of species and their habitats. They provide life-sustaining services to humans by supplying clean water, food, and other natural resources. The productivity of these ecosystems is being impacted by climate change, threatening the livelihood of those that rely on them... Continued Coastal Flooding Data August 24, 2015 An increase in global sea level poses a major threat to global coastal communities and habitats. Coastal flooding from high tides, tropical cyclone storm surge, tsunamis, and heavy precipitation events is projected to increase in frequency and severity. To combat the impacts of sea level rise due to climate change... Continued Arctic Data August 24, 2015 The Arctic is warming at a rate twice the global average, according to the 2018 Arctic Report Card. Warming temperatures, melting sea ice and glaciers, and thawing permafrost are having profound impacts on Arctic ecosystems, as well as Arctic residents and their ways of life... Continued Microsoft Launches “Innovation Challenge” around Food Resilience July 28, 2015 By Ana Pinheiro Privette WASHINGTON, July 27, – The U.S. Department of Agriculture is partnering with Microsoft to launch the "Innovation Challenge," a competition to develop software applications that help farmers, agriculture businesses, and consumers explore how climate change will affect their food systems. The Innovation Challenge… Continued First International Conference on Surface Transportation System Resilience to Climate Change and Extreme Weather Events June 26, 2015 By Ana Pinheiro Privette September 16-18, 2015 The National Academy of Sciences Building Washington, DC The Transportation Research Board will host a conference September 16-18, 2015 to provide transportation professionals with information about emerging best practices and research results on how to adapt surface transportation … Continued Launch of Energy & Infrastructure Resilience theme of Climate.Data.Gov June 25, 2015 By Ana Pinheiro Privette To help communities, governments, businesses, and research institutions better understand and plan for the risks of storms, floods, and other climate-change-related impacts, the U.S. Government is enhancing accessibility and releasing today a collection of datasets containing scientific and technical information… Continued Previous 1 … 4 5 6 … 14 Next About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov