Ecosystem Vulnerability Maps - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Back to climate , updates Ecosystem Vulnerability Maps By Data.gov admins · November 14, 2014 Here you will find a collection of maps and map layers that can help us to visually understand the vulnerability of ecosystems, and related climate change impacts. The U.S. Node to the Global Biodiversity Information Facility (GBIF-US) # The U.S. Node to the Global Biodiversity Information Facility (GBIF-US) national data portal is a web-based federal mapping resource for plant and animal species occurrence in the United States, including invasives. Contributors: USGS USFWS Critical Habitat # The Critical Habitat data available to view using the ArcGIS online mapping service provides information regarding threatened and endangered species. Contributors: USFWS Cropscape - Cropland Data Layer # The CropScape – Cropland Data Layer web portal allows users to view national cropland and agricultural data on a yearly basis. Contributors: USDA Crucial Habitat Assessment Tool (CHAT) # The Crucial Habitat Assessment Tool (CHAT) provides non-regulatory wildlife information, including habitats, vegetation, and wildlife corridors. Contributors: Western Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies EnviroAtlas # The EnviroAtlas Interactive Map allows users to discover and analyze data related to ecosystem services, biodiversity, people, and developed environments. Contributors: EPA Essential Fish Habitat Mapper # The Essential Fish Habitat Mapper is an application for viewing spatial representations of habitats deemed necessary for fish breeding, spawning, feeding, and growth. Contributors: NOAA Historical Shoreline Change # The Coastal Change Hazards Portal provides short- and long-term shoreline change evaluations as well as historical shoreline and coastal products. Contributors: USGS National Land Cover Database (NLCD) # The National Land Cover Database (NLCD) viewer provides users with national land cover data, including land cover change, urban imperviousness, and tree canopy data. Contributors: Multi-Resolution Land Characteristics Consortium, USGS The National Map Viewer # The National Map Viewer online web mapping portal contains elevation, watershed, transportation, and geologic datasets and services. Contributors: USGS The National Water Information System # The National Water Information System mapping interface provides the locations and sites of USGS data, including water gauges. Contributors: USGS Web Soil Survey # The Web Soil Survey provides soil data and information used for planning, agriculture, and other environmental use cases both small and large scale. Contributors: USDA, NRCS USFS Forests to Faucets # The USFS Forests to Faucets Watershed map displays indices of safe drinking water in relation to forests and surface water. Contributors: USFS USGS Global Ecosystems Viewer # The USGS Global Ecosystems Viewer provides global ecosystem information including terrestrial ecosystems, surface lithology, bioclimates, and topographic position. Contributors: USGS About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov