Armenia Increases Contribution to World Bank’s IDA by 30% Who We Are News PRESS RELEASE September 15, 2025 Armenia Increases Contribution to World Bank’s IDA by 30% Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina YEREVAN, September 15, 2025 – The Government of Armenia has increased its contribution to the International Development Association (IDA) by 30%, reinforcing its commitment to global development and poverty reduction. Formalized at a ceremony with Armenia’s Ministry of Finance and World Bank leadership, this pledge highlights the country’s extraordinary journey from an IDA recipient in the 1990s to an IDA donor in 2023, just nine years after graduating from IDA support. “Armenia’s pledge is more than a financial contribution; it is an investment in hope and solidarity ,” said Akihiko Nishio, World Bank Vice President for Development Finance. “ As a former recipient who now donates to IDA, Armenia brings the credibility of a nation that has walked the difficult path of reform and emerged stronger. This is the power of international development done right.” IDA played a central role in Armenia’s development following its independence in 1991, supporting the country’s transition to a market economy, building institutions, and investing in social safety nets and infrastructure. Armenia graduated from IDA in 2014, marking a milestone in its economic transformation. By returning as a donor in 2023, Armenia brought its experience of reform and recovery to IDA’s global mission. “We want to serve as an example that, as a result of consistent work, a country receiving support can also become a donor country. This is a great responsibility for us ,” said Vahe Hovhannisyan, Minister of Finance of Armenia. IDA is one of the largest sources of concessional finance for 78 low-income countries around the world, providing grants and low-interest financing for projects that promote jobs and economic growth and reduce poverty. IDA is replenished every three years, and the 21st round of IDA negotiations concluded in December 2024. Contact: World Bank Media Relations: +1 (202) 473 7660, press@worldbank.org PRESS RELEASE NO: 2026/012/DFi Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×