Water Maps - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Back to climate , updates Water Maps February 26, 2014 Here are a few examples of the many maps available on the Internet that illustrate historical conditions and potential climate impacts on water resources. Streamer # Interactive map platform for near real-time streamflow conditions and weather radar. Contributors: USGS National Weather Service Flood Inundation Map Libraries # Stream gauge locations that monitor the state of streams, recording when stage height has reached flood levels. Contributors: NOAA, NWS NRCS National Water and Climate Center # Interactive map portal providing data for conservation and tools for assessing water supplies under different conditions. Contributors: National Resources Conservation Service Integrated Climate and Land Use Scenarios (ICLUS) # Web portal using climate models to project land use and land cover changes in the United States. Contributors: EPA National Integrated Drought Information System (NIDIS) # Platform for historical and current drought conditions as well as vegetation, fire, and soil moisture maps and tools. Contributors: NOAA, USDA, NDMC, National Drought Resilience Partnership (NDRP) Working Group National Climate Change Viewer(NCCV) # Historical and future climate projections from various downscaled models of emission scenarios. Contributors: USGS, IPCC Climate Wizard # Web-based mapping tool that allows users to view historic and future temperature and rainfall predictions based on scientifically vetted model projections and to examine additional climate variables at daily timesteps and query data for custom geographical regions. Contributors: USDA FS Flood Inundation Mapping (FIM) Program # Online mapping tool to help communities protect lives and property by providing tools and information to help them understand their local flood risks and make cost-effective mitigation decisions. Contributors: USGS Aqueduct Water Risk Mapping Tools # Web-based interactive mapping platforms for understanding and comparing national and sub-national water risks, identifying current and future water risks to agriculture and food security, and analyzing the costs and benefits of investing in flood protection. Contributors: World Resources Institute USGS Water Watch # Streamflow Data Daily metrics from U.S. stream gauge data on streamflow, drought, and flood, as well as historical statistics. Contributors: USGS USGS National Ground-Water Monitoring Portal # Web portal containing current and historical data including water levels, water quality, lithology, and well construction that is compiled from selected groundwater monitoring wells from Federal, State, and local groundwater monitoring networks across the nation. Contributors: USGS Groundwater Depletion in the United States (1900–2008) # Scientific article on groundwater depletion in the United States from 1900-2008. Contributors: USGS Storm Prediction Center # Web portal for viewing daily forecasts, storm warnings, reports, and climatologies in the United States. Contributors: NOAA, NWS About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov