Event | ECA Talk: Financial Innovation to Unlock Private Capital for Adaptation and Resilience Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events ECA Talk: Financial Innovation to Unlock Private Capital for Adaptation and Resilience Share Overview Speakers During this ECA Talk, Mr. Antikarov will address the challenge of attracting private capital to adaptation and resilience projects, as they are typically viewed as low-profitability and high-risk investments due to less predictable financial returns. He will demonstrate how innovative financial techniques can help assess the true value of such projects and incorporate this valuation into financial analysis to increase the size of private investment. The discussion will also explore how to optimize leveraging of public and donor capital through extensive use of guarantees that sufficiently de-risk these projects, making them attractive to private investors. Mr. Antikarov will draw on specific cases to illustrate the practical application of these approaches. Vladimir Antikarov Speaker Principal at Verea Group LLC Vladimir Antikarov is Principal at Verea Group LLC. With over 30 years of experience in corporate finance, he has served as a senior member of the corporate finance practice at the Monitor Group (now Monitor Deloitte) and as Senior Advisor to the CFO of Overseas Shipholding Group, the largest US oil tanker company. His client engagements have included work with AT&T, Merck, Lockheed Martin, Avaya, Thomson Reuters, Philips, Roche, Vale, Votorantim, Telefonica, Axel Johnson, and the World Bank in Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Tanzania, and Yemen. Mr. Antikarov is co-author of Real Options: A Practitioner's Guide, which has been published in six languages. He is cited as a thought partner in McKinsey & Company's book Valuation: Measuring and Managing the Value of Companies. His work has garnered more than 3,300 citations in professional and academic literature. Forhad Shilpi Discussant Senior Economist at the Development Research Group, World Bank Forhad Shilpi is a Senior Economist in the Sustainability and Infrastructure Team of the Development Research Group. Her current research focuses on the impacts of infrastructure and communication on rural-urban transformation, the role of domestic market institutions in the transmission of international price signals, and intergenerational mobility in developing countries. Her research has been published in leading development and economics journals such as Economic Journal, Journal of Development Economics, Journal of Human Resources, Canadian Journal of Economics, Oxford Bulletin of Economics and Statistics and Economic Development and Cultural Change. She holds a Ph.D. degree in economics from Johns Hopkins University, where she taught several economics courses. Prior to joining the World Bank, she worked as a research associate at the Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies. Learn More Ivailo Izvorski Host & Chair Chief Economist for the Europe and Central Asia region at the World Bank Ivailo V. Izvorski is the Chief Economist of the Europe and Central Asia Region of the World Bank. Over nearly 30 years, he has worked in technical and managerial positions on the countries of Sub-Saharan Africa, East Asia and the Pacific, and Europe and Central Asia at the World Bank, the Institute of International Finance, and the International Monetary Fund. Before his current position, Ivailo was the Manager of the World Bank Global Debt, Macro, and Growth Unit and, before that, the manager of the macroeconomists for Europe and Central Asia. Ivailo holds MA and PhD degrees in economics from Yale University. Ivailo is coauthor of numerous publications, including of Diversified Development: Making the Most of Natural Resources in Eurasia, Reinvigorating Growth in Resource-Rich Sub-Saharan Africa, and of Greater Heights: Growing to High Income in Europe and Central Asia. Learn More Related: Office of the Chief Economist, Europe and Central Asia The World Bank in Europe and Central Asia ECA Talks Series Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×