Agricultural Research Gives Farmers a New Lease on Life --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Agricultural Research Gives Farmers a New Lease on Life March 2, 2016 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> The Mullah Ghulam Research Farm was not in a good condition two years ago. The farm’s soil was not ready for agriculture and cultivation of field crops but a lot has changed since then. Rumi Consultancy / World Bank Story Highlights Ongoing research on wheat and other crops in research farms across Afghanistan is contributing to better harvests and improved welfare among farmers. The research farms are supported by the Afghanistan Agriculture Inputs Project, implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation and Livestock. The project aims to strengthen institutional capacity for the safety and reliability of agricultural inputs and sustainable production of certified wheat seed, with funding support from the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF). BAMYAN CITY, Bamyan Province – The noise of the tractor breaks the morning silence in Mullah Ghulam village as farmers harvest wheat at the research farm. There is a sense of satisfaction among the farmers as they finish the task, harvesting the product of their year’s hard work. The Mullah Ghulam Research Farm, owned by the Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation and Livestock (MAIL), produces breeder seeds for subsequent multiplication to foundation seeds. The farm is one of 10 research farms of the Agricultural Research Institute of Afghanistan (ARIA) that produces breeder seeds from nucleus seeds produced by the institute. Qurban Omid, director of wheat research in Mullah Ghulam Research Farm, says: “This year we will introduce three types of breeder seeds, including Darulaman-07, Bamyan-013, and Solh, to the Improved Seed Enterprise for mass production.” ARIA farms, such as Mullah Ghulam, sell the breeder seeds to the Improved Seed Enterprise (ISE) for further multiplication to foundation seeds. In turn, the ISE uses the foundation seeds to produce certified seeds, known as ‘improved’ seeds, for sale or distribution to Private Seed Enterprises (PSEs) and local farmers. Mullah Ghulam Research Farm, located in the capital city of Bamyan Province, occupies an area of some 134,000 square meters. It is one of the research farms in central Afghanistan that is being supported by the Afghanistan Agriculture Inputs Project (AAIP), implemented by MAIL with funding support from the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF). AAIP aims to increase adoption of improved crop production technologies across the country. Among its many activities are actions to strengthen ongoing research and seed production activities, which are resulting in the improvement of sustainable and quality seed production, and release of new high-yielding and resistant wheat varieties. With the help of the Afghanistan Agricultural Imputs Project, the research farm has increased its capacity, producing 2,625 kg of breeder seeds. Rumi Consultancy / World Bank " Research lies at the heart of agriculture. In the absence of research, farmers will not harvest good crops with higher yields from their farmlands. " Abdul Wahid Ferozi AAIP regional plant breeder, Mullah Ghulam Research Farm Support increases production capacity Mullah Ghulam Research Farm was in poor condition before AAIP began its support in October 2014, producing only 350 kg of breeder seeds. A year on, the research farm has increased its capacity, producing 2,625 kg of breeder seeds. “Thanks to AAIP’s assistance, we have been able to produce a large amount of breeder seeds this year,” says Qurban Omid. Farmer Hedayatullah, 50, has been working at the farm for eight years and has seen the considerable improvements take place. “Mullah Ghulam Research Farm was not in a good condition two years ago. The farm’s soil was not ready for agriculture and cultivation of field crops,” he says. “We usually faced water shortage and harvested only a small amount of crops. Now most of these problems have been solved.” MAIL built a protective wall around the farm four years ago to prevent cars from driving through, which had resulted in damage to the soil’s fertility. With the land now ready for cultivation again and, with AAIP support, it was leveled and prepared for cultivation and irrigation—a deep well was dug for irrigation and the soil fertilized with manure and chemical fertilizers. Moreover, AAIP is planning to further develop the farm to improve productivity through laser land leveling, establishing irrigation channels, and renovating office buildings. AAIP began its support with a range of technical assistance to the farm’s staff to enable them to carry out research projects in accordance with government standards, says Mohammad Sarwar Aryan, director of Mullah Ghulam Research Farm. “The farm researches wheat, potato, soybean, and various other vegetable crops, but AAIP covers only research experiments on potato and wheat seeds.” Improved seeds adapted to local conditions Research farms across the country conduct adaptive research on seeds that are imported from abroad, validating the adaption of specific varieties and technologies to the environmental characteristics of a given area. Earlier, imported seeds distributed directly to farmers had been found to yield poor harvests. MAIL’s research farms, therefore, first conduct scientific research on the imported seeds, studying their adaptation and yield potential to local conditions, after which the three classes of seeds are produced by ARIA, ISE, and PSEs, eventually reaching farmers in the form of ‘improved’ seeds. “This year alone, Mullah Ghulam Research Farm has been researching 358 types of wheat seeds under advanced trials and 15 types of potato seeds,” says Mohammad Sarwar Aryan. Through the research process, agricultural researchers observe the adaptability of the new seeds under local climates. They test the seeds for different characteristics, e.g. need for less water, resistance to prevalent diseases, and whether they are high yielding. Wheat seeds possessing such qualities usually pass through the research laboratories and are designated breeder seeds, which are subsequently multiplied to foundation seeds and sold to PSEs for mass production and eventual distribution to farming communities. “Research lies at the heart of agriculture,” says Abdul Wahid Ferozi, AAIP regional plant breeder at Mullah Ghulam Research Farm. “In the absence of research, farmers will not harvest good crops with higher yields from their farmlands. We conduct research here to improve their living and welfare conditions.” Research shows that cultivating local wheat seeds on 0.2 hectares of farmland will produce only 420 kg of wheat, whereas improved wheat seeds in the same area will yield 910 kg. Afghanistan Home RELATED WORLD BANK Afghanistan Agricultural Inputs Project (AAIP) World Bank South Asia on Facebook World Bank South Asia on Twitter EXTERNAL Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF) Ministry of Agricultural Irrigation and Livestock Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.