Energy: Development news, research, data | World Bank Understanding Poverty Topics --> Energy Affordable, accessible energy is at the heart of development, driving job creation, growth, and shared prosperity. Energy Home Overview Feature Story Energy Efficiency: Fast-Tracking Affordable Energy and Jobs Discover how scaling up energy efficiency can unlock growth, cut emissions, and boost energy security—insights from the World Bank’s new feature story. Energy Efficiency: Fast-Tracking Affordable Energy and Jobs Report "Mission 300" Is Powering Africa Through "Mission 300," the World Bank Group, African Development Bank, and others aim to connect 300 million people in Africa with electricity by 2030. Get the latest on this ambitious effort. Copyright (c) 2019 Gaston Piccinetti/Shutterstock. No use without permission. "Mission 300" Is Powering Africa Podcast Powering More With Less: All You Need To Know About Energy Efficiency Energy-efficient bulbs, bricks & buildings cut costs, boost energy security & create jobs. Hear experts explain how smart solutions can power growth. Powering More With Less: All You Need To Know About Energy Efficiency Energy At-A-Glance Energy access is fundamental to any successful development effort. It will accelerate the digital transformation in developing countries, strengthen public infrastructure, and prepare people for the jobs of tomorrow. Learn more… Overview Data Data Mission 300 --> Providing Access to Electricity to 300 Million People in Sub-Saharan Africa The World Bank Group, together with the African Development Bank, has committed to providing access to electricity to 300 million people in Sub-Saharan Africa by 2030. Known as “Mission 300.” Watch this video and join our ambitious mission to power up Africa and unlock its full potential. More Info Recent Research View All Report GFMR Annual Progress Report 2025 GFMR Annual Progress Report 2025 Approach Paper Power More with Less: Scaling up Energy Efficiency for Growth and Energy Security Power More with Less: Scaling up Energy Efficiency for Growth and Energy Security Report 2025 Global Gas Flaring Tracker Report 2025 Global Gas Flaring Tracker Report Report Tracking SDG7: The Energy Progress Report Tracking SDG7: The Energy Progress Report Blogs View All Blogs View All Blogs Experts --> Demetrios Papathanasiou Global Director for the World Bank's Energy and Extractives Global Department Demetrios Papathanasiou Stay Connected News & Events View all What's New View All What's New Latest Events View All Events In Depth Methane from Oil and Gas Production Explained Methane, the primary component of natural gas, is a potent greenhouse gas (GHG), with a global warming potential (GWP) around 28 times greater than the same mass of carbon dioxide emissions on a 100-year basis. Methane from Oil and Gas Production Explained Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP) The Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP) offers advisory services, knowledge, and toolkits for energy policy makers. Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP) Global Flaring and Methane Reduction Partnership (GFMR) The World Bank is part of a global initiative to reduce gas flaring at oil production sites around the world. Global Flaring and Methane Reduction Partnership (GFMR) Extractives Global Programmatic Support (EGPS) The Extractives Global Programmatic Support (EGPS) Multi-Donor Trust Fund helps developing countries manage their oil, gas, and mining resources to support poverty reduction and boost inclusive, sustainable growth and ... Extractives Global Programmatic Support (EGPS) Work With Us In Energy Subscribe to Our Newsletters SUBMIT Jobs Procurement Additional Resources Related Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP) Global Flaring and Methane Reduction Partnership (GFMR) Extractives Global Programmatic Support (EGPS) World Bank Group Scorecard Contact Washington, DC Yann Doignon Sirven ydoignonsirven@worldbank.org This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×