World Bank Advisory Council on Gender and Development Understanding Poverty Topics Gender publication October 18, 2022 Advisory Council on Gender and Development Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Former World Bank Managing Director for Development Policy and Partnerships, Mari Pangestu, engages members of the Advisory Council on Gender and Development at the council's virtual meeting in March 2021 The World Bank Group's Advisory Council on Gender and Development was the main external consultative body helping the World Bank Group promote gender equality, a prerequisite to our goal of ending extreme poverty and promoting shared prosperity. The Council met twice a year to consider progress on, and constraints to, gender equality globally, and to provide feedback and advice on the World Bank’s work in this area. Members also collaborated on projects that promote gender and development, and contributed to efforts to raise awareness of gender-related issues and the benefits to societies and economies of improving opportunities for women and girls. The Council was active from 2011 to 2023. The Council has, through its advice and guidance, helped to strengthen the WBG’s work to close gaps between men and women, and to implement recommendations in the 2012 World Development Report . In December 2015 the World Bank Group adopted a new gender strategy as a roadmap to help increase its contribution toward key results: closing first-generation gaps in education and health; getting to more, better, and inclusive jobs; closing gender gaps in ownership/control over key assets like land and finance; and enhancing women’s voice and agency, especially by preventing and responding to gender-based violence. The World Bank Group looked to the Council for advice in implementing this strategy in the face of global and national challenges, but also in helping identify entry points and opportunities. The Council was composed of senior government representatives from World Bank client and donor countries, leaders from the private sector and civil society institutions working on economic development and gender equality, and distinguished experts in the fields of economics and gender and development, who were invited to serve 2-year terms. Membership of the Advisory Council on Gender and Development (as of September 2022) Membership of the Advisory Council on Gender and Development (as of September 2022) Advisory Council Sessions Photos 2016 Spring Meetings: Advisory Council on Gender and Development 2015 Spring Meetings: Advisory Council on Gender and Development 2014 Spring Meetings: Advisory Council on Gender and Development 2013 Annual Meetings: Advisory Council on Gender and Development This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×