Argentina, an Example in South-South Exchanges --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Argentina, an Example in South-South Exchanges December 14, 2012 This page in: English Español Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Penguins from the Patagonia region in Argentina. World Bank STORY HIGHLIGHTS The country advises a delegation from India in comprehensive ecological coastal management Technicians discuss and share experiences in Managua on MCH With support from the World Bank, Argentina develops road safety exchanges with other countries like China, Colombia or Ecuador Argentina is taking advantage of South-South cooperation to enhance growth potential and show successes. With extensive experience in developing innovative projects that improve results, Argentina is promoting strategic partnerships to share knowledge and best practices. The work that it is being done in the areas of environment, health and road safety are good examples to share. In 2012, an Indian delegation visited Argentina to better understand the current international best practices in estuarine-coastal zone management and improve the application of a newly evolving concept of integrated ecological coastal management. Environmental specialists from central and provincial government agencies learned about present economic and ecological state of Southern Atlantic Sea zone and all complexity of legal and real-life interaction between the public sector, civil society and private actors in Argentina. The goal is to preserve this incredibly rich and diverse area considered one of the last most intact marine zones on Earth and at the same time provide sustainable economic growth and development to the local population. Over this exchange and planned follow-up communications, the participants from India will consider application of ecological management to be used in development, planning and management of coastal and marine areas in India. In Nicaragua, the first session of the cooperation between the two countries was developed last September. Technical teams from the Ministries of Health of both countries met in Managua to share experiences in implementing payments for results in the maternal and child care . During the two-day workshop, 35 participants also discussed the characteristics of health systems in Nicaragua and Argentina, and the South American country´s experience in medical audits and in institutional strengthening policies. In November, officials from Nicaragua visited Buenos Aires to attend a technical level exchange on some topics identified as common synergies. Road Safety The World Bank has facilitated South-South exchanges on road safety between Argentina and countries from the region and elsewhere, including China, Uruguay, Paraguay, Colombia and Ecuador. Government officials from Ecuador, Colombia and Uruguay have participated in trainings and meetings with their colleagues in the National Road Agency in Buenos Aires. In particular, Ecuador and Colombia are interested in replicating the Argentina Road Agency Model . Paraguay officials received training in road safety education programs and enforcement policies for enhanced road safety. Officials from China have also visited Buenos Aires to learn from the Agency's experience in road safety management. RELATED WORLD BANK Home - Argentina World Bank Institute: South-South Knowledge Exchange Argentina Latin America and Caribbean Health India Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.