Event | Land and Property Research Conference Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Land and Property Research Conference Share Call for Papers Important Dates The World Bank’s Research Department invites submission of papers featuring academic research on all aspects of land governance and institutions and their impact on shared economic growth, resilience, private investment, job creation, and poverty reduction. The research conference will have a similar format as the 2024 edition (see here for papers and recordings ) and will be held from April 29 to May 1, 2026 at World Bank Headquarters in Washington, DC, USA. The keynote speech will be by Daron Acemoglu , 2024 Nobel Laureate in Economics. Full research papers of between 6,000 and 10,000 words should be submitted through the paper submission and registration link by November 16, 2025. On an exceptional basis, abstracts of at least 1,000 words for research with analysis in progress will be considered. These extended abstracts must include a detailed overview of the research methodology, specify the data sets used, and outline the anticipated results. An academic advisory committee will select the best papers for presentation at the conference based on (i) methodological rigor (ii) policy relevance and innovativeness; and (iii) clarity of exposition. Paper acceptance notifications will be sent by January 12, 2026. Final papers are due April 12, 2026. For inquiries, contact landconference@worldbank.org . Participation in the conference will be by invitation only. Priority will be given to presenters whose papers have been accepted. ➜ Deadline for paper submission November 16, 2025 ➜ Communication of paper acceptance January 12 2026 ➜ Final paper submission April 12, 2026 ➜ Opening of conference registration January 12, 2026 (by invitation only) Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×