Event | Toward a Joint Platform for Innovative Access to Justice: Global Stakeholders in Action Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Toward a Joint Platform for Innovative Access to Justice: Global Stakeholders in Action Share Overview Highlight Remarks Keynote Address by Mr. Christophe Soulard, First President of the Cour de cassation, delivered at Law, Justice and Development Week 2025 in Washington, DC. Closing Remarks by Ms. Martha Koome, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Kenya, prepared and recorded for Law, Justice and Development Week 2025. ~~~ This high-level event marks the official launch of the Access to Law and Justice Working Group (ALJ-WG)—a new global partnership dedicated to improving legal literacy, legal aid, and access to remedies worldwide. In today’s challenging global context, closing justice gaps is essential for inclusive growth, job creation, and public trust. This high-level dialogue will bring together diverse voices to explore practical ways to remove barriers to legal access and promote justice as a driver of sustainable development. This session will also and introduce upcoming initiatives—including a global consultation and the “Lawyer’s Cookbook” for scalable justice innovations. Join us to help shape a global blueprint for access to justice. Welcome Remarks David Satola , Chief Counsel, World Bank Group Opening Remarks Christophe Soulard , First President, French Court de Cassation Panel A: Legal Practitioners Focus David Campbell , Chair of the United States Federal Judiciary’s Committee on International Judicial Relations Julie Couturier , President, French National Bar Council Anastassiya Miller , Program Director of Civic Space, PILnet Panel B: Global NGOs and Specialized Multilateral Organizations Focus Karen Tse , Founder and CEO, International Bridges to Justice Anna Giudice , Team Leader, Accelerating Justice Team, CPCJS/DTA, UN Office on Drugs and Crime Henk-Jan Brinkman , Permanent Observer of the International Development Law Organization (IDLO) to the United Nations Partnering for Impact: Next Steps with the ALJ-WG Solene Bedel, Head of Legal, Jus Mundi Closing Remarks (video) Her Ladyship Martha Koome, Chief Justice of Kenya Moderators Christian Brugerolle, Counsel, World Bank Group Paula Tavares , Counsel, World Bank Group Return to the main LJD Week event website here . Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×