World Bank Debt Statistics Debt Statistics Home About Statistics Publications Methodology Debt Events Contact Us FAQ Survey Round 2 of the DRS Global Consultation Open To enhance debt transparency, the World Bank's Debt Statistics Program is redesigning the Debtor Reporting System (DRS). Help us make sure the methodologies and standards we develop are robust, accurate, and responsive to your institution’s needs. Please provide your input to Round 2 of the Global Consultation by October 12. BLOG Behind the scenes: How we work with creditors on debt transparency Earlier this year, the World Bank conducted the second round of a Data Sharing Exercise with G-7 and Paris Club creditors. This is the first large-scale effort of its kind to systematically compare creditor- and debtor-reported data at the loan-by-loan level. But have you ever wondered what it takes to reconcile all that data? Here’s a look behind the scenes at what that process involves. Blog Navigating debt and trade: Data show persistent debt challenges for ... Growing trade protectionism is increasing global trade policy uncertainty and is anticipated to weigh materially on demand for exports from developing economies. In this new era of global economic fragmentation, strengthening LMICs’ resilience and boosting development will require enhanced adaptability to changing global trade winds, in addition to managing higher debt levels. Blog Building debt transparency and resilience across East Asia and the Pacific The World Bank Debt Statistics Team and the Institute for Economic Development organized the workshop entitled Enhancing External Debt Statistics for Greater Transparency and Sustainability. The five-day workshop served as both a technical deep dive and a strategic dialogue on the evolving debt ecosystem. Summary Report Round 1 Results of the DRS Global Consultation Since September 2023, the World Bank has been collaborating closely with the IMF, UNCTAD, and COMSEC to develop an updated Debtor Reporting System (DRS). We invited debt management offices, central banks, national statistical offices, relevant international organizations, and academia who have a direct interest in or experience with monitoring international sovereign debt statistics to share feedback. These are the results of the first round of feedback. BLOG Creditors are becoming a game changer in the drive for debt transparency After the success of the 2022 initiative, the World Bank collaborated last year with the G-7 and 11 other Paris Club members on a renewed data-sharing effort, this time focusing on loan data from 2023. Read the latest blog for key insights and highlights from the report. Statistics IDS International Debt Statistics DSSI Debt Service Suspension Initiative QEDS Quarterly External Debt Statistics QPSD Quarterly Public Sector Debt JEDH Joint External Debt Hub Blogs & Articles PARUL AGARWAL Aug 12, 2025 Behind the scenes: How we work with creditors on debt transparency ANTHONY TIN YU TO Aug 07, 2025 Navigating debt and trade: Data show persistent debt challenges for developing countries amid uncertain trade prospects EVIS RUCAJ Jul 08, 2025 Building debt transparency and resilience across East Asia and the Pacific HAISHAN FU & EVIS RUCAJ Mar 26, 2025 Creditors are becoming a game changer in the drive for debt transparency View all Blogs Arrow Latest News REPORT Mar 26, 2025 G7 and Paris Club Data Reconciliation Exercise (2023 Data) PRESS RELEASE Dec 03, 2024 Developing Countries Paid Record $1.4 Trillion on Foreign Debt in 2023 View all News Arrow Experts Evis Rucaj Program Manager, Development Data Group Rubena Sukaj Senior Economist, Development Data Group Rasiel Vellos Senior Economist, Development Data Group Debt Data Team Arrow Additional Resources Additional Data Sources User Guide Macro, Trade & Investment - Debt Topic Questions? Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Data Help Desk Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->