What Does It Take to Get an Equal Start in Life? Perhaps a Kindergarten? --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work Bulgaria publication publication What Does It Take to Get an Equal Start in Life? Perhaps a Kindergarten? This page in: English Български Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Experimental evidence from Bulgaria suggests that removing kindergarten fees reduces by half the number of Roma children not enrolled in kindergarten and increases their attendance by about 20% Creating equal opportunities for children is one of the most critical, human development challenges. There is a growing concern that children from disadvantaged families lag behind their peers from more affluent families because they do not benefit from quality, early-childhood development opportunities - including preschool - as much as others. In 2011, a regional Roma survey was conducted in countries in Central and Eastern European that have significant Roma populations. This study showed that only 45% of Roma children in Bulgaria were enrolled in kindergarten. Following the introduction of government policies making preschool education compulsory for all children aged 5 and 6 and linking regular attendance to child-allowance payments, the enrolment rate of Roma children rose to 68%. A crucial question, then, is how do we identify efficient ways to maximize enrollment in kindergarten for children in poor communities. Supporting Disadvantaged Children to Enter Kindergarten: Experimental Evidence from Bulgaria , a large scale, multi-arm randomized control trial, aims to improve participation rates in kindergarten among poor children between the ages of 3 and 5 in Bulgaria - most of whom are Roma (74% of the study sample) or Turkish (13%). The study was implemented in 2014-2015 across 236 poor settlements around Bulgaria Participating children and their families were offered support in one of four ways: Exposure to an information campaign promoting the benefits of kindergarten Free access to kindergarten (covering fees and indirect, “hidden” costs) Free access + 7 BGN ($4) in food coupons in exchange for regular attendance Free access + 20 BGN ($11) in food coupons in exchange for regular attendance The study finds that removing the costs of kindergarten reduced the share of unregistered children in kindergarten by half. This support also boosted attendance by about 20%. The additional financial incentives - either 7 or 20 BGN - given for regular attendance had no clear impact on registration or attendance, suggesting that cost is a more important barrier than behavioral issues. Organizing community meetings to provide information about the importance of kindergarten also had no impact on participation in kindergarten, although it slightly improved parental perceptions regarding the benefit of kindergarten, raising aspirations for their children – especially girls. Overall, removing costs for kindergarten was the most cost-effective strategy for increasing participation in kindergarten. However, the effect on short-term child development – emergent literacy, numeracy, motor and socio-emotional skills – is mixed: slightly positive for Bulgarian children, while negative for Roma and Turkish children. These results suggest that all children may not immediately benefit from kindergarten, especially minority children who may need additional support to successfully transition to, and benefit from, exposure to kindergarten. RELATED DOWNLOAD THE PUBLICATION Supporting Disadvantaged Children to Enter Kindergarten: Experimental Evidence from Bulgaria Infographic INFOGRAPHIC Supporting Disadvantaged Children to Enter Kindergarten Bulgaria Europe and Central Asia Education --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.