Unlocking the Potential of Information Communications Technology to Improve Water and Sanitation Services --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Understanding Poverty Topics Water publication Unlocking the Potential of Information Communications Technology to Improve Water and Sanitation Services Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> DOWNLOAD Summary of Findings and Recommendations Recent experience from around the world has demonstrated that the water and sanitation sector has not been immune to the innovative use of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) as evidenced by the many examples currently being rolled out. We may only be witnessing the first wave of technology innovations for water and sanitation service delivery, however, and have much to learn regarding the best way to adopt, quickly operationalize, and continue to innovate in successive stages. While ICT can be a key enabler for institutional transformation to address the demand for improved water and sanitation service, especially for hard-to-reach poor populations in rural and urban areas, it will never be the silver bullet. In order to maximize its transformational role in the sector, ICT should be recognized as a conduit or tool that needs to be continuously managed well in order to help achieve a solution. Impact and success need to be measured not merely in terms of implementation or uptake of the new technology, but more importantly with regards to achieving the Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) sector’s goals and priorities. This study was carried out by the Water and Sanitation Program (WSP) of the World Bank to fill a gap in understanding how the potential of ICT can improve water and sanitation services globally, with a particular emphasis in Africa. It covers a global desk review and case studies in seven African countries (Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Senegal, Benin, Niger and Liberia), complemented by experiences from other regions (Latin America, North America, South Asia and East Asia) and analyzes strengths and weaknesses of existing ICT tools. It also provides evidence on how ICT can be used to leapfrog the water and sanitation sector towards more sustainable service delivery. This study sought to not only document experiences of ICT use in the WASH sector, but also analyze them within the framework of enabling factors and barriers in terms of vision, process, customer/user, service delivery, human capacity, governance and finance. Information and Communications Technologies in the Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) Sector DOWNLOAD · Kenya Case Study · Liberia Case Study · Uganda Case Study · Tanzania Case Study · Senegal Case Study (in French) · Benin Case Study (in French) · Niger Case Study (in French) DOWNLOAD Field Note: ICT Services to improve performances of rural water private operators in West Africa French version This Field Note provides an overview of the mWater platform, based on information from the study “ Unlocking the Potential of ICT Services in the Water and Sanitation Sector in Africa ” completed in June 2015. This Field Note seeks to provide information on the mWater pilot projects conducted in four West African countries (Senegal, Mali, Benin and Niger) to demonstrate the feasibility of the use of ICT tools to improve the monitoring and management of rural and small town piped water schemes. The mWater platform is a service-oriented platform developed as a mobile-to-web monitoring system. The platform was developed by the Senegalese mobile solutions company Manobi through a public-private partnership co-funded by the Water and Sanitation Program in 2007. As of today, mWater is monitoring 251 water schemes in real-time and has an inventory of more than 35,000 water points in the four countries of Senegal, Mali, Benin and Niger. The mWater platform provides an ICT design structure in which mobile phone applications and web services are developed to support the life cycle of water supply systems, from construction (inventory and mapping) to operation (data collection, technical and financial management) and performance benchmarking, as demonstrated below. Last Updated: Jun 27, 2016 RELATED BLOG 5 potential benefits of integrating ICTs in your water and sanitation projects BLOG 6 ways to strengthen consumer voice in water and sanitation sector through ICT platforms Benin Water Kenya Liberia Niger Senegal Tanzania Uganda View More + --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.