Brazil Fights Crime while Bringing Development to the Favelas --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Brazil Fights Crime while Bringing Development to the Favelas March 22, 2013 This page in: English Português Español Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> STORY HIGHLIGHTS Because of violence, millions of Brazilians were left out of the country’s growth. The Police Pacification Units are tackling security and social issues at the same time. Successful experiences in Rio and the Southeast set an example for other Brazilian regions. In 2007, Brazil’s government launched a plan to reduce crime and violence in the favelas, the poorest neighborhoods of Rio and other major cities. Neglected for decades by the authorities, these communities were under the rule of new and powerful masters: drug traffickers. As a result, safety conditions and lack of opportunities in the favelas, had left millions of people unable to take advantage of benefits generated by the country’s growth. Swift, tangible actions were therefore needed to address this problem. Additionally with the city due host to both the 2014 World Cup and 2016 Olympic Games, all eyes will be on Brazil and how they will guarantee the security of these two international events. The first responses to tackling gangs in the favelas, heavily armed policie and even military personnel, generated some controversy because of the brutality in its implementation and the lack of effective results. Life is safer This, of course, lead to a change and in 2008, the Secretariat of Safety in the state of Rio de Janeiro began introducing de Police Pacification Units (known as UPPs) to fight crime little by little. Morro dos Praceres in Rio de Janeiro is one of the favelas with its own UPP. There we met Letizia, a 27 year-old hairdresser, who told us that life is a lot safer today. “Before we were never at peace when we sent our kids to school,” she said. In many other places of Rio de Janeiro life has improved thanks to the UPPs. The World Bank study Bringing the state back into the favelas , says there are 28 UPPs in over 100 communities home to more than 400,000 people. Besides strengthening police presence and actions, the project also aims at consolidating peace and promoting social and economic development in the favelas, with several social services. Supporters of UPPs and its social components say the idea is that peace and other actions will consolidate and will guarantee peace and development in the favelas beyond the World Cup and the Olympic Games. For 2014, the state of Rio de Janeiro plans to have 40 UPPs (up from the current 28) to protect an estimated population of 750,000. " Successful experiences, like those in Pernambuco and the South-East, appear to be related to comprehensive public policies of prevention and control. " Rodrigo Serrano-Berthet WB Senior Social Development Specialist South-East sets an example The World Bank report Making Brazilians safer says that the situation regarding crime and violence appears to be improving in the rest of the country, but warns that there are significant differences between states. Based on successful experiences in some south-eastern states, the report recommends three points which governments should take into account when designing policies against crime: reduction of inequality, decline in school dropout rates and improved working conditions “Understanding the mechanisms that contribute to high crime scenarios and listening to the people most affected by the violence are crucial for identifying solutions that improve security and quality of life in the country,” said Deborah L. Wetzel, World Bank Director for Brazil. The study concludes that the south-eastern region of Brazil could be considered to be an example for crime reduction and that policies such as arms and alcohol controls as well as programs oriented at youth exposed to crime and violence, have proved effective. Rodrigo Serrano-Berthet, Coordinator of the two studies, considers that “successful experiences, like those in Pernambuco and the South-East, appear to be related to comprehensive public policies of prevention and control.” Brazil in the world While in some states, such as Sao Paulo, homicide dropped 67% between 2000 and 2010, in the North-Eeast region the increase was alarming: 303% in Bahia. 160% in Alagoas 253% in Pará. The only exception in the region was Pernambuco, where the homicide rate fell by 28%. In 2003, the national homicide rate was 28.9 in 2007, it declined to 26.4, and subsequently rose slightly in 2010, to 27.7 (per 100,000 inhabitants). Although the reduction is significant, the rate is still high compared with other regions in the world: European Union 1.2 Central America 41 North America 4.6 South America 20 If initiatives such as the UPPs have the expected results and other recommendations are followed, Brazil will definitely be at the same level as other nations, not only in sports but also in successfully fighting crime and violence. RELATED WORLD BANK World Bank in Brazil World Bank in Latin America and the Caribbean Report: Bringing the state back into the favelas Report: Making Brazilians safer : analyzing the dynamics of violent crime Press Release: Brazil Consolidates Itself as a Laboratory of Promising Experiments in Violence Reduction Brazil Latin America and Caribbean Urban Development Colombia Guatemala Mexico Nicaragua View More + Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.