Updates - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Updates Previous 1 … 11 12 13 14 Next Cities December 16, 2013 Continued ERS Food Access Research Atlas API December 13, 2013 By Data.gov admins Food access indicators for census tracts using 12-mile and 1-mile demarcations to the nearest supermarket for urban areas, 10-mile and 20-mile demarcations to the nearest supermarket for rural areas, and vehicle availability for all tracts are estimated and mapped. Continued National Agriculture Statistics Service QuickStats December 13, 2013 By Data.gov admins Official aggregate estimates related to U.S. agricultural production. National Agriculture Statistics Service (NASS) develops these estimates from data collected through hundreds of sample surveys conducted each year covering virtually every aspect of U.S. agriculture and the Census of Agriculture conducted… Continued Food and Nutrition Service December 13, 2013 By Data.gov admins SNAP Retailer Locator API provides location, details and directions for retailers that welcome SNAP Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) customers. Continued Agricultural Productivity in the United States December 13, 2013 By Data.gov admins Increased productivity is the main contributor to growth in U.S. agriculture. This data set provides estimates of productivity growth in the U.S. farm sector over the period 1948-2008, and estimates of the growth and relative levels of productivity across the… Continued MarineCadastre.gov December 12, 2013 By Data.gov admins MarineCadastre.gov is a joint Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) initiative that provides authoritative data to meet the needs of the offshore energy and marine planning communities. The website provides access to authoritative… Continued White House issues guide … Open Data Policy | Fierce Government IT August 21, 2013 A supplemental guide to the White House’s Open Data Policy has been released providing additional clarification and detailed to assist agencies in carrying out the objectives laid out in a May 9 memo and executive order. The administration’s document, posted on the… Continued Agencies get how-to on open data compliance | FCW August 20, 2013 Agencies are expected to deliver on several elements of President Barack Obama's executive order on open data by Nov. 1, including creation and publication of a list of data assets. To steer these efforts, the Office of Management and Budget… Continued Arctic Framing Questions August 17, 2013 Arctic Framing Questions 1. Understand changes in Arctic Ocean chemistry, as well as historical and projected changes in sea ice extent and the impacts of these changes on coastal communities. 2. Understand the changing trends of melting glaciers, snow, and ice and the resulting impacts on hydrologic systems... Continued Open Ag Data July 26, 2013 Miss the #OpenAgData conference this week? Want a recap of announcements? Check out our summary page http://go.usa.gov/TPUT Continued Previous 1 … 11 12 13 14 Next About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov