SE4ALL Global Tracking Framework --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Understanding Poverty Topics Energy publication SE4ALL Global Tracking Framework Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Report Highlights Business as usual will not remotely suffice to achieve the goals of Sustainable Energy for ALL (SE4ALL) initiative. Twenty high-impact countries in Asia and Africa account for about two-thirds those without access to electricity, and three-quarters of those who use solid fuels—wood, charcoal, animal and crop waste, and coal—to cook or heat their homes. Renewable energy accounted for 18% of the global energy mix in 2010. The improvement rate of energy efficiency, described by a compound annual growth rate of energy intensity (CAGR), was -1.3% between 1990 and 2010. Both need to double. How is the world doing on energy access? 1.2. billion people – almost the population of India – don’t have access to electricity, 2.8 billion have to rely on wood or other biomass to cook and heat their homes. We will need a massive effort to expand access to electricity and safe cooking fuels in 20 countries in developing Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa. About 80% of those without access to modern energy live in rural areas. Although 1.7 billion people gained access to electricity between 1990 - 2010, this is only slightly ahead of population growth of 1.6 billion over the same period. The pace of expansion will have to double to meet the 100% access target by 2030. To bring electricity to that one billion plus people using conventional energy sources would increase global carbon dioxide emissions by less than one percent. High-impact countries offer the most potential to make rapid progress towards the goals. Twenty high-impact countries in Asia and Africa account for about two-thirds those without access to electricity, and three-quarters of those who use solid fuels—wood, charcoal, animal and crop waste, and coal—to cook or heat their homes. The indoor air pollution that results causes about four million premature deaths a year, most of them women and children. " What you measure determines what you get. That is why it is critical to get measurement right and to collect the right data, which is what this report has done. It has charted a map for our achievement of sustainable energy for all and a way to track progress. Let the journey begin! " Kandeh Yumkella Secretary General’s Special Representative for Sustainable Energy for All What is the progress in increasing renewables and improving energy efficiency? Renewable energy accounted for 18% of the global energy mix in 2010. The improvement rate of energy efficiency, described by a compound annual growth rate of energy intensity (CAGR), was -1.3% between 1990 and 2010. Both need to double. Another 20 high-impact countries account for 80% of energy consumption and will need to lead the way on doubling the share of renewables to 36% of the global energy mix and doubling energy efficiency. Decisive action is needed to achieve these goals: More than double energy investments A comprehensive package of policy measures, including fiscal, financial and economic incentives, phasing out fossil fuel subsidies, and pricing of carbon. The report shows that China recorded the largest energy savings and greatest expansion in renewable energy globally. India has electrified an annual average of 24 million people and provided 20 million a year with access to modern cooking and heating fuels since 1990. The experience of these fast-moving countries offers lessons for the high-impact countries in tackling the goals. China and India are in both categories. Countries, international organizations, private sector and civil society need to more than double existing energy investments of $409 billion. They need to add at least $600 billion more every year until 2030. The additional $600 billion would include $45 billion for electricity expansion, $4.4 billion on modern cooking, $394 billion in energy efficiency, and $174 billion on renewable energy. " The report shows that there has been progress but it is also clear that much more will need to be done if we are to meet the UN Secretary General's ambitious goals. The global energy system is undergoing arguably the biggest transformation in modern history and bold policy measures will be required to enable the energy sector to deliver on this challenge. The World Energy Council is committed to play our part in achieving these goals and guiding the policy changes needed, through our leadership network and our events such as the World Energy Congress, with our Energy Tilemma policy work and our leadership in the Global Electricity Initiative. Access to secure, clean, and affordable energy is fundamental to improving the lives of people across the world. The goals of SE4ALL are important and we must seize this opportunity to make a better future. " Dr. Christoph Frei Secretary General of the World Energy Council Resources Download the Executive Summary of the Global Tracking Framework . (Vol 1) Executive Summary - Deutsch Executive Summary - العربية Executive Summary - 中文 Executive Summary - Français Executive Summary - Русский Executive Summary - Português Executive Summary - Español Download the Overview of the Global Tracking Framework . (Vol 2) Download the Global Tracking Framework . (Vol 3) Download presentation of key messages from the Global Tracking Framework . See Sustainable Energy for All infographic. This report is the first of a series to monitor progress towards the three objectives of the Sustainable Energy for All initiative. It puts numbers to each objective, identifies what needs to change, and outlines how progress can be made. Connect ISSUU: Read the Global Tracking Framework online SCRIBD: Read the Global Tracking Framework online PRESENTATION: Global Tracking Framework for SE4ALL INFOGRAPHIC: Sustainable Energy for All - What Will it Take? PUBLICATION: World Bank Outlook: Sustainable Energy for All FEATURE: Energy for All by 2030: Time to Act MEMBERS: SE4ALL Advisory Board Members RELATED FEATURE STORY Global Tracking Framework Puts Numbers to Sustainable Energy Goals NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC NEWS Five Surprising Facts About Energy Poverty SE4ALL DATABASE Sustainable Energy for All MULTIMEDIA Video VIDEO World Bank Links Electricity to Poverty --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.