Event | Rethinking Legal Protections for a Livable Planet: Case Studies on Innovative Approaches to Remedy Environmental Crimes Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Rethinking Legal Protections for a Livable Planet Share Overview As biodiversity collapses, climate-related harms intensify, and environmental crimes escalate, there is an urgent need to rethink legal systems for environmental justice. This session brings together legal practitioners, civil society organizations, researchers, and public institutions to explore how law can be a more effective tool in protecting the environment and addressing the complex diversity of actors and methods involved in environmental degradation. Drawing on concrete case studies this session will showcase of practical, interdisciplinary solutions designed to strengthen environmental protection and public participation in environmental decision-making. The discussion will be framed around the evolving role of legal practitioners in the environmental justice ecosystem, with a focus on three pillars: prevention; sanction; and reparation. The session will also catalyze dialogue across sectors and borders, encouraging participants to reflect on their role and leverage in advancing environmental justice. By fostering peer learning and cross-disciplinary exchange, the session will highlight how collaborative legal ecosystems can drive systemic change. Speakers: Antonio Herman Benjamin , Chief Justice, National High Court of Brazil, Brazil Robert Cicuto , Delegate of the French National Chamber; President, European Chamber of Judicial Officers Aurélia Devos , Magistrate, Ministry of Justice, France Belén Paez , President, Fundación Pachamama Olagnika Salam , President, African Affairs Commission, International Union of Notaries Moderator: Laurent Marion , Director, Governance Department, Expertise France Return to the main LJD Week event website here . Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×