Finding and Helping the Neediest in Moldova --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Finding and Helping the Neediest in Moldova August 21, 2013 This page in: English Русский Română Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> 2,960 people live in Zimbreni, a small agricultural village outside Moldova's capital city. There are 36 families here, families like Tatiana Leu's, with too many problems and not enough money, who benefit from Moldova's social aid program. Tatiana's 8-year-old daughter Sylvia has diabetes, and her husband, a farmer, doesn't earn enough to provide for her expensive medical care. Because of the diabetes, Sylvia's eyesight is bad and getting worse. The Leus are proud of the fact that Sylvia is in a regular school, but they worry about her all the same. A couple of months ago at school, she fell down and broke her glasses. To buy a new pair, and to simply get by, the family relies on help from the government. "The money is important for us for our daughter's treatment," Tatiana Leu explains. "We have to spend a lot on her health, so now when we're told by the doctor we need something, we can afford it." The Leus get about 625 Moldovan lei a month, about $52 dollars. They spend the extra money on Sylvia, on school clothes, and on the house. They saved up for six months and bought a cow for fresh milk for the kids, Sylvia and her brother, Pavel. "The cow gives us milk and we make butter," Tatiana says. "So I'm sure I have something to feed the kids everyday. I can give them a cup of milk, I have food for them everyday." Village Support Anastasia Staci, Zimbreni's deputy mayor says for the most part, there is support in the village for the social aid program. "Villagers accept the system because they know they might be in the same situation someday," she says. "The money means a lot for the people who find themselves in a difficult situation and who need help getting out of it." With support from the World Bank, Moldova is overhauling its social aid program, to better target those who need help. Remittances from abroad and profits from farming have shrunk, prompting a rise in rural poverty. Moldova spent generously on social assistance, but the money wasn't always getting to the neediest. The old system was based on categories: the disabled, pensioners, families with children. The new system is based on income. "The old system wasn't targeting young families who are in need, who don't have jobs, who need temporary help, and who have kids at home," says Valentina Buliga, Moldova's Minister of Labor, Social Protection and Family. She continues, "the former system was inefficient, only fairly small amounts of government aid actually got to the poorest." Helping the Poorest In fact, under the old system, only 18 percent of the money allocated to social aid went to the very poorest; now 82 percent does. The rest goes to pensioners and the disabled. About 8 percent of the Moldovan population relies on such help. "Because I don't have any other income except for this, this year was very dry with no fodder for our animals, so that's why the social aid is so important for us," explains Valentina Iacob. In addition to her two-year-old twin girls, Maya and Yanna, Valentina has three other children. Her husband, who didn't work because of high blood pressure, left her two weeks ago. Right now she's on maternity leave, and she says she is anxious to get back to her work cleaning in a local hospital. In the next town over, Carbuna, Lilia Chirilenco also struggles to raise five children without a husband. Like Valentina Iacob, she gets the maximum amount of aid from the government, 1,600 lei, or about $133 dollars a month. "Mostly I use it for food, to pay utilities and buy clothes and shoes; also for school supplies. I can't work because I have five kids. And there is no work in the village." The new system processes applications within 15 days and relies on computer-based logarithms to determine aid based on income. To cut fraud, applicants must re-apply every six months. For the Leu, Iacob and Chirilenco families, and the fifty thousand Moldovan families like theirs, the process is worth it for the benefits it brings. For families in trouble, the food, warmth in winter, and stability that social aid provides are essential. Victor Neagu, Communications Associate in the Moldova World Bank Office RELATED WORLD BANK World Bank in Moldova Project: Strengthening the Effectiveness of the Social Safety Net Results-Based Financing Specific Investment Loan EXTERNAL Moldovan Ministry of Labor, Social Protection and Family Government of the Republic of Moldova Moldova Europe and Central Asia Poverty Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.