Job Trends November 2013: Employment Growth in Developing Countries Falls Further as Recovery Stalls --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Understanding Poverty Topics Poverty publication Job Trends November 2013: Employment Growth in Developing Countries Falls Further as Recovery Stalls Latest Issue: Number 8 Latest Issue: Number 8 --> Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> The World Bank In the first quarter of 2013... Median growth rate of wages in developing countries accelerated slightly, employment growth slowed and the unemployment rate increased. Slowdown in employment growth mostly seen in Asia and Latin America. Weak global recovery and uncertainty could aggravate current trends. Employment outcomes in developing countries did not show improvements in the first quarter of 2013. Although there was a small acceleration in the median growth rate of wages, in sharp contrast to the dynamics observed during the first half of 2012, employment growth slowed down and the unemployment rate increased slightly. Most of the slowdown in employment growth took place in Asia and in Latin America. Even in countries where employment continued to expand—Brazil, Turkey, and Romania—either the unemployment rate increased or wages fell. This can be explained in part by the slowdown in economic growth starting in the second half of 2012. The weak global recovery and uncertainty during the first half of 2013 regarding fiscal and monetary policies in the United States and Europe could aggravate current trends. Regionally, East Asia and the Pacific drives the aggregate trend in GDP growth and continues to show relatively strong economic performance. On average, its GDP growth increased from 5.3 to 6.7 percent between the first quarters of 2012 and 2013, respectively. This can largely be attributed to the GDP growth in China (at 7.7 percent), as well as the sharp rise in Thailand (from 0.4 to 5.3 percent) and in the Philippines (6.5 to 7.8 percent). However, the income growth rates in these countries have not improved the situation in their labor markets. Economic growth in Europe and Central Asia slowed from 4.3 to 3.8 percent, mainly due to lower GDP growth in the Russian Federation and Tajikistan. The employment growth rate improved in all countries, but remained low or even negative in most, keeping the average for the region at 1.1 percent. The notable exceptions to this pattern are Romania and Turkey, where employment grew at 3.0 and 4.7 percent, respectively. Source: CEIC Data Company, National Statistical Offices, and the International Monetary Fund. Note: Values represent the median value of growth rates estimated for 21 countries: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Brazil, Chile, China, Colombia, Kazakhstan, Lithuania, Mexico, Peru, the Philippines, Romania, the Russian Federation, South Africa, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, and the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. In the Latin America and Caribbean region , macroeconomic and labor market indicators weakened and showed slower growth in the first quarter of 2013 compared to the same period in 2012. GDP growth dropped from 4.5 to 3.1 percent, following a general decline over the past quarters for most countries included in the analysis. The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela was hit particularly hard, with its GDP growth plunging from 5.9 to 0.7 percent, while most other countries saw moderate downward shifts in growth. Only Chile and Brazil managed to increase their growth rates, from 1.1 to 5.6 percent and 0.8 to 1.9 percent, respectively. Finally, the labor market in South Africa , the only Sub-Saharan African country included in the analysis, remains in a dire situation. South Africa’s economic growth continues to decline, and its employment growth has fallen further, from 2.3 to 1.5 percent, compared to the annual growth recorded in the first quarter of the previous year. Overall, unemployment remained at 25.2 percent, and real wage growth further contracted from 1 to 0.5 percent. For the full text of the November 2013 report, click here (PDF). Armenia Azerbaijan Belarus Brazil Chile China Colombia Kazakhstan Mexico Peru Philippines Romania Russia South Africa Tajikistan Thailand Türkiye Ukraine Venezuela East Asia Pacific Europe and Central Asia Latin America and Caribbean Poverty View More + JobTrends is a regular series monitoring labor markets in developing countries. It is a collaborative effort between the Human Development Network (HDN) and the Poverty Reduction and Economic Management (PREM) Network of the World Bank. Learn More Job Trends November 2013 (Full Version) Past Editions of Job Trends Poverty Home RELATED Jobs Knowledge Platform World Development Report 2013: Jobs --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.