Global Gateway Forum: the European Commission and World Bank Group Deepen Partnership for Infrastructure and Jobs Who We Are News This page in: English Français العربية 中文 Español This page in: English Français العربية 中文 Español PRESS RELEASE October 8, 2025 Global Gateway Forum: the European Commission and World Bank Group Deepen Partnership for Infrastructure and Jobs Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina BRUSSELS, October 8, 2025 - The European Commission, in line with its Global Gateway investment strategy, and the World Bank Group are deepening their strategic partnership to drive a new generation of connectivity projects. An initial pipeline of projects includes 18 high-impact investments in three strategic sectors (energy, transport, and digital infrastructure) across Africa, Asia and the Pacific, and Latin America and the Caribbean. The collaboration, which will include regular high-level engagement and progress updates, is designed to ensure that projects move not only from pipeline to financing, but from financing to jobs, services, and results. The announcement was made in the margins of the Global Gateway Forum that takes place on 9 and 10 October in Brussels. World Bank Group President Ajay Banga said: “ Creating jobs is a strategic choice. Jobs created in emerging economies expand local opportunity while fuelling global demand. That’s why this partnership matters. Together, the European Commission and the World Bank Group can align investments, unlock private capital, and deliver results at a scale neither could reach alone.” European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said: “ Today, we are taking our partnership with the World Bank to the next level. This new framework will guide how we steer, govern, and monitor joint projects in the areas like energy, transport, and digital infrastructure. This will make sure that Global Gateway’s strategic investments, hand in hand with the World Bank Group’s capacity to deliver reforms, can crowd in maximum private capital.” This partnership has objectives to create local jobs and drive sustainable economic growth, with a focus on building vibrant private sectors that create opportunity for local communities, especially in countries with abundant natural resources and large youth populations. It advances the three pillars of the World Bank Group’s job creation strategy: investing in human and physical foundations like education, healthcare, roads, ports, and electricity;fostering business-friendly environments with clear laws, predictable taxes, and transparent institutions; and supporting the private sector with capital, guarantees, and risk insurance. It also complements a unique feature of the Global Gateway: in addition to investment in hard infrastructure for the long term built to the highest quality and environmental standards, Team Europe also provides regulatory support, skill development, training, research, and investment in local jobs and companies. The 18 initial projects were chosen for their alignment with Global Gateway and World Bank Group priorities, along with their proven ability to scale, potential to attract private capital, and expected impact on jobs creation, productivity, and regional integration. Global Gateway Global Gateway is the EU’s external investment strategy to build smart, clean, and secure connections in the digital, energy, and transport sectors, as well as strengthen health, education and research systems globally. It fits the current geopolitical context by nurturing equal partnerships that increase strategic autonomy and resilience of Europe and partner countries alike. It is an attractive offer thanks to its sustainable investments. It is the EU’s contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals beyond its borders. For More Information: Global Gateway Forum Global Gateway List of the 18 selection projects Contacts: World Bank Group Media Relations: (+1-202-250-0395), press@worldbank.org European Commission: (+32-2-298-0564), guillaume.mercier@ec.europa.eu PRESS RELEASE NO: 2026/015/EXC Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×