Event | Launch of the World Bank & BirdLife International Partnership Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Launch of the World Bank & BirdLife International Partnership Share Overview Speakers Join us for the Launch of the African-Eurasian Flyway Initiative (AEFI) — a new partnership between the World Bank and BirdLife International to protect migratory birds and restore the ecosystems they depend on. This extraordinary Flyway is a critical migratory route linking cultures, landscapes and people across the great continents of Africa, Europe and Asia. Stretching from the Arctic tundra to the very tip of southern Africa, this flyway is used by more than 2 billion migratory birds and supports more than 500 avian species. Along this incredible migratory superhighway, countless sites act as critical resting places, stopovers, feeding grounds and nesting locations for birds that are also vital for people. In this event, you will hear from the architects and key stakeholders of this historic partnership, which ultimately aims to mobilize funds towards mainstreaming the conservation, restoration, and sustainable management of migratory birds and their habitats. One flyway. Many nations. Shared responsibility. Martin Harper, International CEO, BirdLife International Biologist by training, Martin Harper has 27 years’ experience of conservation leadership in a variety of Non-Governmental Organizations. This includes 17 years at the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) - BLI’s UK Partner – his last decade there as Global Conservation Director. Martin joined the BLI’s Global Team in 2021 and was appointed as CEO in November 2023. Meskerem Bhrane, Regional Director, Sustainable Development, Middle East and North Africa, World Bank Meskerem Brhane leads the formulation of the Bank’s strategy, lending, technical assistance, partnerships, and policy advisory work for sustainable development in the MNA region. Prior to her current role as Regional Director, Dr. Brhane held several leadership positions in urban development, disaster risk management, and land, including as Practice Manager for these sectors in Africa West, Africa East, and South Asia. Gary Allport, Sr. Adviser to the CEO, BirdLife International Gary Allport is a conservation expert with over 20 years of experience in biodiversity policy and strategic advisory. He is Senior Adviser to the CEO at BLI, where he guides global conservation priorities and partnerships. Previously, he served as Senior Policy Adviser at IUCN, contributing to international biodiversity frameworks. He holds a PhD in Waterfowl Ecology and a BSc in Ecology from the University of East Anglia. Ruth Tiffer-Sotomayor, Sr. Environmental Specialist, World Bank Ruth Tiffer-Sotomayor leads the AEFI initiative at the WB, where she works as a Senior Environmental Specialist in the Global Environment Department. With over 25 years of experience, she has worked across regions on biodiversity conservation, ecosystem restoration, and environmental assessment of large infrastructure. Ruth is a core team member of the Global Program on NBS for Climate Resilience and the NBS Invest Program. Hon. Ibrahim Nura Kazaure, Commissioner Environment and Chairman Jigawa State, ACReSAL Project, Nigeria Dr. Kazaure leads the implementation of the World Bank–supported ACReSAL Project, a six-year initiative to restore degraded landscapes, strengthen climate resilience, and improve livelihoods across Northern Nigeria. Formerly Executive Secretary of the Jigawa State Contributory Healthcare Management Agency, he is recognized for his leadership in advancing sustainable environmental management and community-driven development. Khaled Noby Mohamed, CEO of Nature Conservation Egypt Based in Cairo, Khaled Noby Mohamed has over 18 years' experience in environmental science and conservation. As CEO of Nature Conservation Egypt, he leads efforts to integrate biodiversity conservation into Egypt’s rapidly expanding renewable energy sector, ensuring the protection of migratory birds and native species. Khaled was recently honoured as one of the 50 Impact Makers for COP29 Global Communications Campaign. Blessings Chingagwe, Programmes Manager for the Wildlife and Environmental Society of Malawi Blessings Chingagwe is a prominent figure in Malawi's wildlife and environmental conservation sector. She is involved in numerous projects aimed at protecting ecosystems like Michiru Forest and Chia Lagoon. Blessing also has a background in scientific research, contributing to studies on habitat conservation and is affiliated with the Malawi University of Science and Technology. Duncan Lang, Principal Environment Specialist, Asian Development Bank With over 20 years’ experience in environmental management and biodiversity conservation, Duncan Lang leads ADB’s Regional Flyway Initiative and oversees the biodiversity component of ADB’s updated Environmental and Social Framework. Duncan also led ADB’s collaboration with BLI on AVISTEP and serves as the Bank’s focal point for Sustainability Reporting. Franz Gerner, Lead Energy Specialist, World Bank Franz Gerner has over two decades of experience in energy policy, advisory services, and investment operations across Europe, Asia, Africa, and Latin America. He has led major World Bank programs, including support for Vietnam’s power sector reforms and South Africa’s Just Energy Transition, which featured the Bank’s first coal plant decommissioning and repurposing operation. Since 2023, he has focused on sector reform and regional power trade across Eastern and Southern Africa. He is the Task Team leader of the Regional Energy Transmission, Trade & Decarbonization Project (RETRADE). Lesley Dickie, Executive Vice President for Conservation and Regions, Birdlife International Dr Lesley Dickie is the Executive Vice President of BLI. With over 25 years’ experience in both ex situ and in situ conservation, she joined BirdLife International in 2024. At BLI she has responsibility for conservation programmes, the six regional offices of BLI and the Partnership function. She has particular oversight of BLI's global work on flyways, the migratory routes of the world's birds. Genevieve Connors, Acting Global Director, Environment Department, World Bank Genevieve Connors manages corporate engagements and global programs on the blue economy, forests and landscapes, the economics and finance of nature, biodiversity and wildlife, and chemical, air, and plastics pollution. From 2022-24, she was the Practice Manager for Environment, Natural Resources, and the Blue Economy in the region of Latin America and the Caribbean. Event Details Date: November 04, 2025 Time: 08:00 AM - 09:30 AM ET Virtual: REGISTER Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×