Our Expanded Strategy --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work Home brief BRIEF Our Expanded Strategy October 1, 2019 This page in: English Français العربية Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Shutterstock l Ryan Rodrick Beiler The last eight years have been challenging for the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region. In response to the region's changing circumstances, the World Bank Group launched in 2015 a new strategy entitled - "Economic and Social Inclusion for Peace and Stability in the Middle East and North Africa: A New Strategy for the World Bank Group" . This strategy, built on 4 pillars - Renewing the social contract, Regional cooperation, Resilience to refugees and migration shocks and, Reconstruction and recovery - focuses on promoting peace and stability and has produced several innovations. For instance, by leveraging partnerships, the Bank was able to continue working in Yemen during active conflict. IDA grants totaling $1.7 billion have been mobilized for critical life–saving services and economic opportunities for vulnerable Yemenis. As Lebanon and Jordan faced the shock of millions of Syrian refugees, a new facility was launched to provide them with concessional financing, the first ever for middle-income countries. That facility became the Global Concessional Financing Facility (GCFF) that has so far unlocked over $2.5 billion in concessional financing. These initiatives have contributed to alleviate some of the tensions in the region. Although challenges remain and will continue for some time to come, a new economy is slowly emerging. To support this new economy, the World Bank Group is expanding the MENA strategy. Promoting stability is still critical to the World Bank Group, and we will continue to design interventions based on the four pillars. To support the region in seizing new opportunities, three new priorities have been added to the original four pillars: Harnessing the region's human capital - The region is far from using the full potential of its human capital. MENA countries' average Human Capital Index is at 49% which means that young people in the region can expect to be on average only half as productive as they could have been with full health and quality education. MENA countries have lined up to address these disparities: a number of pioneering countries are working with the Bank to develop action plans to improve their investments in building human capital. Reforms of education systems are essential. They should start in pre-primary education and address skills development with a focus on employability in the private sector. Leveraging technologies for a new digital economy - Creating an infrastructure for the development of a more sophisticated digital economy will be key to take advantage of the region's tech-savvy youth. This should be coupled with adaptable regulatory reforms to allow digital payments. With access to high speed internet and digital payments, many more people could use their mobile devices for economic growth and productive purposes. To supporti economic transformation and lay the foundations for a new digital economy, more flexible social security systems will be required. Developing the private sector through the Maximizing Finance for Development approach (MFD) - The World Bank Group’s Maximizing Finance for Development approach pairs development challenges with private sector solutions. This approach, pioneered in the MENA region, continues to be implemented through coordination between the Bank, the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA), as in the case of Egypt's energy sector where Bank-supported policy reforms were able to unlock over $20 billion in private investments in renewable energy and gas. Meanwhile, MENA is expanding the approach to social sectors. By expanding its strategy, the World Bank Group seeks to help the MENA region move from stabilization to transformation, unlock its vast economic potential of youth and women and ease the constraints that hamper their creative energies. Algeria Home Djibouti Egypt Gulf Cooperation Council Iran Iraq Jordan Lebanon Libya Morocco Syria Tunisia West Bank and Gaza Yemen View More + An Expanded Strategy for the Middle East and North Africa – video --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.