Readout from World Bank Group President David Malpass’s Meeting with President Klaus Iohannis of Romania Who We Are News Statement September 20, 2022 Readout from World Bank Group President David Malpass’s Meeting with President Klaus Iohannis of Romania Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina NEW YORK, September 20, 2022 —Today, World Bank Group President David Malpass met with President Klaus Iohannis of Romania. President Malpass and President Iohannis discussed global conditions and the ongoing food and fertilizer shortages. President Malpass thanked Romania for providing continued humanitarian support to Ukrainian refugees displaced by the war and for Romania’s contributions to supporting Ukraine’s grain exporters. President Malpass updated President Iohannis on the World Bank’s recent Rapid Damage and Needs Assessment (RDNA) for Ukraine. President Malpass and President Iohannis also discussed the importance of non-fragmentation of aid for Ukraine and the need for international coordination on reconstruction efforts. President Malpass was glad to highlight to President Iohannis the World Bank Group’s ongoing partnership with Romania, including in the energy sector, emphasizing the importance of fiscal sustainability and diversification of energy mix. President Malpass noted good collaboration with Romanian authorities on a Country Climate and Development Report (CCDR) for Romania, the first one for an EU member state. President Malpass and President Iohannis also talked about improved EU funds absorption, the importance of reforms to encourage a business enabling environment, and post-pandemic reversals in education. They discussed the importance of strengthening Romania’s education outcomes as well as the crucial role of an educated workforce with proper skills in supporting growth and development. Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×