Event | Jobs Poverty in the Caribbean: Youth Perspective Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Jobs Poverty in the Caribbean: Youth Perspective Share OVERVIEW AGENDA Essay Winners Poverty, unemployment and underemployment are pressing challenges in the Caribbean, affecting economic mobility, stability, and opportunities for young people. Although the region has made strides over the years, fragile economic growth and low-quality jobs are holding millions back. In 2023, despite decades of progress, 1 in 4 people still lived below the poverty line in the LAC region. Also prevalent is a high youth unemployment rate – in 2023, the youth unemployment rate in the Caribbean was at 24%. Labor market inclusion of women remains a consistent problem across the Caribbean with a 29% youth female unemployment rate in 2023. This has far-reaching implications, including barriers of entry in high-yield and productivity sectors, ultimately resulting in women having higher poverty and poorer human development index indicators. Addressing youth unemployment and poverty in the Caribbean requires a multi-faceted approach that includes investing in education and training, promoting economic diversification, supporting entrepreneurship, and implementing inclusive policies. This requires strong participation from youth, who are the strongest drivers of economic prosperity in the region. Keeping this in view, the World Bank invited Caribbean youth to participate in an essay competition on the topic of jobs and poverty, asking them to share their views, aspirations, and solutions. This event will bring together the top three winners, World Bank experts and the private sector to discuss these issues, providing a platform for youth perspectives to be heard, and discuss solutions. FACEBOOK LIVE VIDEO Competition Details 10:00 – 10:05 a.m. Event Opening Danielle Mullings, Youth Advocate and event moderator 10:05 – 10:10 a.m. Welcome Remarks Lilia Burunciuc - Division Director – Caribbean – World Bank 10:10 – 10:20 a.m. Presentation Clemente Avila Senior Social Protection Economist, World Bank 10:20 – 10:30 a.m. Winners Announcement Lilia Burunciuc - World Bank Division Director - Caribbean 10:30 – 10:50 a.m. Panel Discussion Hear directly from our winners, alongside experts from the World Bank and the private sector. 10:50 – 11:00 a.m. Audience questions invited 11:00 – 11:05 a.m. Session closes: Moderator 10:50 – 11:00 a.m. Audience questions invited Abigayle Morgan 1st Place Winner Abigayle is a driven second-year student at the University of the West Indies, specializing in Integrated Marketing Communication. A passionate scholar with a keen interest in media and culture, Abigayle strives to use media as a catalyst for social change leveraging its power to cross barriers and borders. Beyond academics, she actively contributes to the social dialogue through Talktruth, her blog focused on sparking discussions among youth on topics including mental health, technological lag and other pressing issues affecting Caribbean societies. Learn More Rol-J Williams 2nd Place Winner Rol-J Williams is a medical student at The University of the West Indies, St. Augustine. He holds a Master in Biochemistry degree from the University of St Andrews, and while his academic background is in science, he is an avid debater, poet, student of politics. His poetry and literary reviews have been published by several magazines. Recently, his activism and advocacy efforts included climate justice and sustainability, particularly in his role as President of UWI Students Today Alumni Tomorrow where he is collaborating on an initiative to integrate sustainability into teaching at the university. Learn More David R. Salmon 3rd Place Winner David R. Salmon is an award-winning journalist and academic from Jamaica. He began his career as a columnist for The Gleaner where he received an award for Opinion Journalist at 19, making him the youngest recepient of such award in the history of the organization. He holds a Bachelor of Science in Public Policy and Management from the University of the West Indies. He also holds a Master of Philosophy in Development Studies from the University of Cambridge. He is currently studying international development at the University of Oxford after receiving the Rhodes Scholarship. His research focuses on the industrial development of emerging economies. Learn More Event Details Date: April 08, 2025 Time: 11:30 AM - 11:13 AM ET Location: Online Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×