Golden Aging: Prospects for Healthy, Active and Prosperous Aging in Europe and Central Asia --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work Europe and Central Asia publication Golden Aging: Prospects for Healthy, Active and Prosperous Aging in Europe and Central Asia This page in: English Русский Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Open full infographic Download the report : Golden Aging: Prospects for Healthy, Active and Prosperous Aging in Europe and Central Asia Overview The Europe and Central Asia region has among the oldest populations in the world. Europe, in particular, is approaching the end of a demographic transition toward population stabilization, and Central Asia, although still younger, is following quickly. Aging in Europe and Central Asia is different from that in Western Europe and East Asia in that populations are aging, while people are not necessarily living longer. The rise in the average age is largely attributable to a decrease in fertility rather than to an increase in longevity. Today, life expectancy at birth is 73 years, three years lower than in East Asia and a full ten years behind Western Europe. In many countries in Europe and Central Asia, the emigration of young people has also accelerated the aging of their societies. More often than not, the aging of a population is a source of concern, given the potential for higher health care and pension costs, increasing dependency, lower growth, unsustainable fiscal deficits, and intergenerational tensions. Demographic trends are frequently viewed as unstoppable and as an inevitable cause of increasing economic costs. However, individuals and firms change their behavior in response to changing conditions, and policy can help or hinder adaptation to demographic shifts. Aging societies are not destined to experience stagnation or a decline in living standards. However, the behavioral changes that help reduce dependency and sustain productivity do not necessarily happen automatically. A supportive environment, including the right incentives and policies, can facilitate this transition. In Europe and Central Asia, bold adaptive action is needed across many policy areas to support active, healthy, and productive aging. These areas include much more than reforming the intergenerational transfer and pension systems: they encompass, among others, shifting health systems toward preventive care, primary care, and more diagnostics; reforming educational systems to bolster the cognitive skills needed for productive employment along longer working lives; and reforming labor market institutions to allow women to reconcile family and career goals and older people to work more flexible hours. This report aims to provide a better understanding of the aging process and its links with the economy - and ultimately to guide policy making. Policy makers can meet the challenges and seize the opportunities of aging by facilitating behavioral adaptation. In such a scenario, Europe and Central Asia could one day enter a period of “Golden Aging,” in which all people can live long, healthy, active, and prosperous lives. Europe and Central Asia Education Health RELATED Report: Golden Aging: Prospects for Healthy, Active and Prosperous Aging in Europe and Central Asia Press Release: Aging in Europe and Central Asia – A Gray Tsunami or a Golden Era? Panel Discussion: Aging Societies – Seizing the Opportunities in Europe and Central Asia Report Launch: Presentations, Video and Photos - Ministry of Finance, Austria Feature Story: The Promise of Prometheus: Golden Aging in Europe and Central Asia Video: PabsyLive Interview with Hans Timmer Blog: Can aging be good for societies as well as individuals? Blog: In aging societies, will young liberals become old conservatives? Blog: Should we work forever? Blog: Did we get the ‘old-age dependency’ of aging countries all wrong? Blog: Young people run faster, but seniors know the shortcuts Blog: How - and on what money - could we live to the age of 150 years? Video Interview: Hans Timmer Video: Interview with Maurizio Bussolo Video: Interview with Johannes Koettl Video: Interview with Emily Sinnott Podcast: RFI Interview with the Authors Show More + --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.