ECA Academy --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work Europe and Central Asia brief ECA Academy Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> The ECA Academy is organized annually by the Office of the ECA Chief Economist. The ECA Academy competition identifies the best new policy-relevant research from across the World Bank Group on topics of interest to the ECA region. The papers are evaluated based on technical quality, originality, and operational relevance. They represent the best new research relevant to ECA from across the World Bank Group, and they combine a high degree of technical rigor with a commitment to identifying relevant policy advice for Bank clients. WINNING PAPERS: 2023 ECA ACADEMY The Effects of Subsidizing Social Security Contributions: Job Creation or Formalization? Gunes A. Asik, TOBB University of Economics and Technology Laurent Bossavie, Social Protection & Jobs Global Practice, ECA Jochen Kluve, KFW Development Bank, IZA, Humboldt University Efsan Nas-Ozen, Social Protection & Jobs Global Practice, ECA Metin Nebiler, Poverty & Equity Global Practice, ECA Ana Maria Oviedo, Poverty & Equity Global Practice, AFR Firm Heterogeneity and the Impact of Payroll Taxes Anikó Biró, Centre for Economic and Regional Studies Réka Branyiczki, Central European University and Tárki Attila Lindner, University College London Lili Márk, Central European University Dániel Prinz, Health, Nutrition & Population, ECA Capacity Building as a Route to Export Market Expansion: A Six-Country Experiment in the Western Balkans Ana Paula Cusolito, Finance, Competitiveness and Innovation Global Practice, Markets, Competition & Technology Unit Ornella Darova, University of Pennsylvania David McKenzie, Development Economics Research Group Corporate Responses to Size-Based Tax Rates in Lithuania Thiago Scot, Development Impact Evaluation Pablo Garriga, Latin America and the Caribbean Chief Economist Office Special thanks go to the review committee which this year included: Jed Friedman, Emanuela Galasso, Michael Lokshin, Harry Patrinos, Alvaro Enrique Pedraza Morales, Claudia Ruiz Ortega, Dorothe Singer, Govinda Timilsina, Ivan Torre, and Ivailo Izvorski. WINNING PAPERS: 2021 ECA ACADEMY Do Immigrants Shield the Locals? Exposure to COVID-Related Risks in the European Union Laurent Bossavie, Social Protection & Jobs Global Practice, ECA Daniel Garrote Sanchez, Social Protection & Jobs Global Practice, ECA Mattia Makovec, Social Protection & Jobs Global Practice, ECA Caglar Ozdan, Development Research Group - Trade & International Integration The Effectiveness of Environmental Provisions in Regional Trade Agreements Michele Ruta, Macroeconomics, Trade & Investment Global Practice Ryan Abman, San Diego State University Clark Lundberg, San Diego State University Can Grit Be Taught? Lessons from a Nationwide Field Experiment with Middle-School Students in North Macedonia Indhira Santos, Social Protection & Jobs Global Practice, ECA Violeta Petroska-Beska, Ss. Cyril and Methodius University, Skopje Pedro Carneiro, University College London Lauren Eskreis-Winkler, Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University Ana Maria Munoz Boudet, Poverty & Equity Global Practice Ines Berniell, CEDLAS-Universidad Nacional de la Plata Christian Krekel, London School of Economics, CEP Omar Arias, Education Global Practice Angela Duckworth, University of Pennsylvania Mass Messaging and Health Risk Reduction: Evidence from COVID-19 Text Messages in Tajikistan William Seitz, Poverty & Equity Global Practice, ECA Special thanks go to the review committee which this year included: Miriam Bruhn, Ana Paula Cusolito, Bingjie Hu, David Stephen Knight, Michael Lokshin, Alvaro Enrique Pedraza morales, Claudia Ruiz Ortega, Dorothe Singer, Jevgenijs Steinbuks, Ivan Torre, and Asli Demirguc-Kunt WINNING PAPERS: 2020 ECA ACADEMY Children on the Move: Progressive Redistribution of Humanitarian Cash Transfers among Refugees Open presentation Berk Özler, Development Research Group - Poverty & Inequality Çiğdem Çelik, Poverty and Equity Global Practice Scott Cunningham, Baylor University P. Facundo Cuevas, Poverty and Equity Global Practice Luca Parisotto, Development Research Group - Poverty & Inequality Invitations, Incentives, and Conditions: A Randomized Evaluation of Demand-Side Interventions for Health Screenings in Armenia Open presentation Damien de Walque, Development Research Group - Human Development Adanna Chukwuma, Health, Nutrition & Population Global Practice Nono Ayivi-Guedehoussou, Office of the Chief Economist, Africa region Marianna Koshkakaryan, Health, Nutrition & Population Global Practice Political Dividends of Digital Participatory Governance: Evidence from Moscow Pothole Management Open presentation Nisan Gorgulu, Office of the Chief Economist, Infrastructure Vice-Presidency Gulnaz Sharafutdinova, Russia Institute, Kings College London Jevgenijs Steinbuks, Development Research Group - Sustainability & Infrastructure Special thanks go to the review committee which this year included: Miriam Bruhn, Roberto N. Fattal Jaef, Kibrom Tafere Hirfrfot, Ivailo Izvorski, Leonardo Iacovone, Michael Lokshin, Alvaro Enrique Pedraza morales, Claudia Ruiz Ortega, Dorothe Singer, Ashley Taylor, Ivan Torre, and Asli Demirguc-Kunt. WINNING PAPERS: 2019 ECA ACADEMY Do Firms Exit the Formal Economy after a Minimum Wage Hike? Laurent Bossavie , Social Protection & Labor, Global Practice Ayşenur Acar Erdoğan , Social Protection & Labor, Global Practice Mattia Makovec , Social Protection & Labor, Global Practice Common Transport Infrastructure: A Quantitative Model and Estimates from the Belt and Road Initiative Alen Mulabdic , Equitable Growth, Finance & Institutions Practice Group Michele Ruta , Equitable Growth, Finance & Institutions Practice Group François de Soyres , the Federal Reserve Board of Governors City Decline in an Urbanizing World Paula Restrepo , Social, Urban, Rural and Resilience Global Practice Luis E. Quintero , Johns Hopkins Carey Business School Special thanks go to the review committee which this year included: Mikhail Lokshin, Roumeen Islam, Ivan Torre, Bingjie Hu, Roberto Fattal, Kibrom Tafere, Claudia Ruiz, Alvaro Morales, Daniel Rogger and Asli Demirguc-Kunt. PAST EVENTS REPLAYS Previous 1 / 4 Next Video VIDEO 2023 ECA Academy: Presentations of Winning Papers Video VIDEO ECA Academy 2021 - Award Ceremony Video VIDEO ECA ACADEMY 2019 - Award Ceremony OFFICE OF THE CHIEF ECONOMIST The Office of the Chief Economist provides guidance on strategic priorities and technical quality of economic analysis in the Europe and Central Asia (ECA) region. LEARN MORE SUBSCRIBE TO NEWSLETTER » RESOURCES World Bank Group Academy --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.