Indonesia Economic Quarterly, March 2016: Private Investment is Essential --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Indonesia Economic Quarterly, March 2016: Private Investment is Essential March 15, 2016 This page in: English Bahasa Indonesia Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Weak global growth in 2015 has affected Indonesia, with the country growing only by 4.8% last year. Indonesia’s 2015 growth was respectable for a commodity exporting country, but was not enough to absorb the 3 million youth entering the work-force , and reverse the recent trend of slower poverty reduction. To boost growth, Indonesia has to rely on fiscal expansion in the short term, while simultaneously introducing reforms to facilitate investment and reduce the cost of doing business in the medium term. The World Bank projects 5.1% GDP growth for 2016, and 5.3% for 2017. This is a downward revision by 0.2 percentage points relative to December’s forecast, due to weaker than expected external conditions, and subdued revenue growth, which may constrain the government’s plans to increase spending. The reduction of fuel subsidies, which accounted for 20% of central government spending in 2014, created the fiscal space for the significant rise in public investment – central government investment increased by 42% percent year on year in 2015 – supporting the economy. However, revenues are likely to be weaker than targeted in the 2016 Budget, owing largely to lower than expected global oil and gas prices. Maintaining capital spending will require a higher fiscal deficit of 2.8% of GDP and cuts in non-priority expenditures. This fiscal expansion alone may not raise growth above 5%. That will depend on an improvement in private sector activity, in particular investment. Private consumption growth remained moderate in the last quarter of 2015, while export revenues from commodities and manufacturing continued to decline. Indonesia’s recovery will depend on policies to improve the business climate, attract higher private investment, and diversify the economy. Other issues discussed in this edition include: Indonesia’s logistics sector reforms, which are essential both for the development of remote regions and for economic diversification; the country’s transition to a more sustainable energy path which can be supported by aligning pricing, regulation and investment policies; and, finally, rising public support for policy action to reverse the recent trend of slower poverty reduction and rising inequality. Indonesia East Asia Pacific RELATED WORLD BANK Download main report (.pdf) Press release Presentation (.pdf) Previous Indonesia economy updates Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.