Consultations: Ukraine’s Country Partnership Framework for 2022-26 Where We Work Ukraine This page in: EN --> dropdown Українська This page in: _ English Українська --> dropdown BRIEF November 8, 2021 Consultations: Ukraine’s Country Partnership Framework for 2022-26 Email Print Tweet Share Share LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> The World Bank Group has started the process of preparing its new Country Partnership Framework (CPF) with Ukraine for the period 2022-2026. The CPF lays out the main development objectives which the World Bank Group aims to help the country achieve and it proposes a selective and flexible program of interventions for this purpose. The objectives are selected to reflect the Government’s priorities and the main development constraints of the country, based on analytical foundations discussed in the WBG Systematic Country Diagnosis (SCD) . The preparation process of the CPF involves consultations with different stakeholders, including the government, international financial institutions, civil society, and private sector representatives, to exchange views on the country’s development opportunities and how the World Bank Group can help address them. The consultation process includes both face-to-face and virtual/online meetings. The process started in September 2021 with strategic discussion with the Government about Ukraine’s development priorities and challenges. The objective of the online consultations, which will last until December 16, 2021, is to seek broader feedback and comments from all interested parties. We expect to hear views from various groups and individuals to help finalize the CPF, and to help measure progress in achieving the country’s development objectives. Please send your comments, questions or suggestions to the World Bank office in Ukraine: cpfukraine@worldbank.org Guiding Questions Here are some questions to consider in your feedback: What do you think are the most important development priorities for Ukraine? How should the World Bank Group support Ukraine’s development agenda? What are the most important reforms that the Government of Ukraine should put in place? What should the World Bank change to improve the effectiveness of its programs? MULTIMEDIA VIDEO Nov 08, 2021 Ukraine: Consultations for Country Partnership Framework 2022-26 The Consultation Materials Presentation: Preparing Ukraine’s Country Partnership Framework for 2022-26 (PDF) Email your comments, questions or suggestions RELATED Website: World Bank in Ukraine Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->