Rivers of Data – Inland Electronic Navigation Charts - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Back to updates Rivers of Data – Inland Electronic Navigation Charts By Marin Kress · May 17, 2021 Nautical charts provide critical information to mariners in support of safe navigation. Historically these charts have been printed and distributed on paper, but modern communications systems allow for electronic charts that are able to be updated as new information becomes available. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Office of Coast Survey produces charts for coastal and Great Lakes areas, and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers produces charts for America’s inland rivers through the Inland Electronic Navigation Chart program. The Inland Electronic Navigation Chart (IENC) program covers thousands of miles of navigable waterways. America’s inland waterways move millions of tons of commodities every year, and the work of surveying, charting, and dredging sediment is continually ongoing due to the dynamic conditions and constant change happening along any given river. Rivers included in the Inland Electronic Navigation Chart (IENC) program include the Allegheny River, Arkansas River, Atchafalaya River, Black Warrior-Tombigbee Rivers, Cumberland River, Green River, Illinois River, Kaskaskia, Kanawha River, Lower Mississippi River, Missouri River, Monongahela River, Ohio River, Ouachita River, Red River, Tennessee River (including the Tellico, Hiwassee, Clinch and Emory Rivers), Tennessee-Tombigbee Waterway, Upper Mississippi River, and the White River. Anyone can access the navigation charts for these rivers, which show depth contours, buoys, lights, known hazards, and reference landmarks. References and Data.Gov Links: Inland Electronic Navigational Charts (IENC), https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/inland-electronic-navigational-charts-ienc USACE Inland Electronic Navigation Charts Homepage, http://ienccloud.us/ NOAA Electronic Navigational Charts (ENC), https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/noaa-electronic-navigational-charts-enc7cce5 NOAA Raster Navigational Charts (RNC), https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/noaa-raster-navigational-charts-rnc7af22 About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov