Putting Higher Education to Work: Skills and Research for Productivity and Growth in East Asia --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Putting Higher Education to Work: Skills and Research for Productivity and Growth in East Asia October 13, 2011 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Despite impressive gains, higher education could contribute even more to Mongolia’s development agenda . Mongolia is projected to be one of the world’s fastest growing economies over the next decade, but maintaining growth and climbing the income ladder will be enormously challenging without significant improvements in productivity. Higher education 1 is critical in this regard because it provides the high-level skills and research to apply current technologies and to assimilate, adapt, and develop new technologies, two drivers of productivity. It can thus be a key driver of growth. Individuals with at least a few years of higher education score higher on measures of skill competencies than individuals with no higher education. And academic, technical, thinking, and behavioral skills and productivity are shown to be positively related. Several indicators of innovation also support the need for higher education: an innovative firm is associated with an increase of about 25 percentage points in its share of workers with more than 12 years of schooling. And countries that have more science and engineering graduates and that engage in more higher education research tend to have better innovation outcomes. Quality deficiencies among higher education graduates have contributed to a skills mismatch . Employers expect workers—particularly those with higher education—to possess the technical, behavioral, and thinking skills to increase their productivity and growth. They need science, technology, engineering, and math skills (STEM). They also need problem solving and creative skills to support a higher value added manufacturing sector and the business, thinking, and behavioral skills for a higher productivity service sector. The supply of new higher education graduates is high compared to the regional average in Mongolia 2, but several indicators point to gaps in these groups of skills among higher education graduates. Fairly high unemployment rates co-exist with significant time (almost 6 weeks) needed to fill professional vacancies with suitable graduates. This suggests that graduates may not have the skills desired by employers. This is confirmed by the limited range of higher education options (notably too few technical and vocational institutions) and employers and employees’ complaints about skill shortages in English, leadership and communication skills. There is a strong unfulfilled demand for technology and engineering vocational skills as employers, particularly those in the mining, infrastructure and manufacturing sectors, report to be unable to hire the skills they need. Additionally, students do not often get the education that would enable them to have broad-based knowledge, be able to make connections, to think creatively, to develop the skills to learn on their own, to be able to communicate well with others, and to be entrepreneurial in their future career. Research outputs from Mongolian universities remain extremely limited . Higher education also needs to do a better job of providing the type of research needed to boost innovation. Universities can produce ideas for the business community, contributing to knowledge and technological innovation through basic and applied research and technology transfer, but the Mongolian higher education system is not yet providing research of adequate quality. Even university involvement in technology adaptation and upgrading is limited. Enterprise surveys show, for instance, that universities are mentioned as having a leading role in acquiring technological innovations (in a broad sense) by only 1–2 percent of firms. Few Mongolian faculty in universities have PhD degrees, and for the large majority, their primary job function remains teaching, with no research responsibility. This is also the result of heavy workloads for existing faculty because of high student-faculty ratios. Clearly, beyond simply providing skills, Mongolian universities need to do more to support innovation through research and technology. Policy Priorities For Mongolia to continue its rapid growth and achieve continued technological deepening, two immediate priorities are evident: addressing skills gaps by providing higher quality higher education and dealing with the quality/quantity trade-off in higher education, and start building research capacity relevant to economic needs in a few universities or departments Among the policy levers the Mongolian government can use to address these priorities, it can: initiate or complete the process of granting further autonomy to universities and university boards; consider strengthening technical and vocational education and training as an alternative tertiary education; support stronger incentives for providing high quality private higher education; increase public funds for STEM areas; increase and better target public spending on R&D; encourage selected university - industry linkages to improve 1 Defined broadly to include all public and private formal institutions of learning that take place beyond upper secondary education. 2 Whereas in 1992, there were only 20,000 students enrolled in higher education, this number increased almost eight-fold to 149,915 in 2007. RELATED WORLD BANK Putting higher education to work : skills and research for growth in East Asia Mongolia East Asia Pacific Education Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.