Open India – A New Tool for Transparency --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Open India – A New Tool for Transparency September 22, 2014 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> World Bank STORY HIGHLIGHTS The World Bank Group has developed a first-of-its kind web app that lays out the full spectrum of our engagement in India in an easy-to-use manner. Track what we are are doing to help India improve access to education, health, electricity, and much more. You can also put this information together in new and dynamic ways. The World Bank Group has developed a first-of-its kind web app that lays out the full spectrum of our engagement in India in an easy-to-use manner. Everyone can now see what we do, why we do it, and the results of our work in the country. The interactive app – OpenIndia – breathes life into India’s Country Partnership Strategy. It connects the dots between our projects and knowledge activities through a logical results framework that clearly links to the challenges our program is addressing. It is perhaps fitting that our India office is the first among the larger development community to take this bold new step forward for it is the sheer size of India’s population that will determine whether the world achieves its goals for reducing poverty or not. The app allows you to see how the whole institution (IDA, IBRD, and IFC) comes together across sectors and states to help India move forward on its enormous development agenda, and meet the World Bank Group’s overall goals. Want to know whether we are making progress in implementing our strategy and where we are falling short? Track it along our strategy’s three broad engagement areas - economic integration, spatial transformation, and social inclusion. Check how our projects are contributing to improving access to education, health, electricity, or in developing rural livelihoods. In fact, you can track progress across 19 outcomes and 33 project level indicators. What’s more, you can put this information together in new and dynamic ways. Under education, for example, you can learn about gender parity in India’s schools, or how many students are enrolled in secondary education, and against what target. Project details are also on hand. Find out what a project aims to do, who is implementing it, and how much money has been disbursed so far. And, discover what key studies have been published or are underway and which companies are benefiting from IFC’s advisory service. You can also take a comprehensive look at our engagement in 14 low-income and special category states in which we work. Check whether our program is shifting to these states as planned, which projects are operating in which state, and which key development challenges are being addressed. Since the app is linked with the World Bank Group’s Open Data site, it includes an accompanying database for over 100 indicators at the subnational level—all from official sources. And this is not all. The team continues to work on developing version 2.0 to allow two-way communication, possibly enabling beneficiaries to upload feedback from project sites. But for now, this innovative tool of transparency remains a work in progress. We therefore welcome suggestions for improvement. Do give us your feedback on #OpenIndia and check out the Q&A with Country Director, Onno Ruhl on Facebook . RELATED WORLD BANK Open India Launch of an interactive application for the India Country Partnership Strategy World Bank in India EXTERNAL World Bank India on Facebook World Bank India on Twitter Q&A with Country Director on Facebook India South Asia Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.