World Bank, European Commission and Open Society Join Hands to Support NGOs Advocating Good Governance in Angola --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY World Bank, European Commission and Open Society Join Hands to Support NGOs Advocating Good Governance in Angola March 10, 2010 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> LUANDA, March 10, 2010 - The World Bank, in partnership with the European Commission, and the Open Society recently organized a civil society budget monitoring workshop in Luanda. The workshop, which provided training for trainers, was part of a partnership aimed at building the capacity of local NGOs in issues related to budget monitoring. The process, facilitated by the World Bank and led by the European Commission’s Non-State Actors Support Program, began in 2008 with the drafting of a manual on Angola’s state budget. The project was enriched with contributions from various national and international organizations, including World Learning, Trocaire, Catholic Relief Services and the Episcopal Commission for Angola and Sao Tome and Principe. The workshop was held as a follow-up to ensure appropriate use of the manual by the local organizations in their own communities. The manual seeks to improve the understanding of national budget processes by government watchdogs, especially gender budgeting. It also serves as a guide on how to access information from Angola’s ministry of finance website, enabling them to be more effective in holding government officials accountable across a broad range of policy, democracy, and governance issues. The three-day workshop focused on education, health and other social sectors. Participants were able to learn skills they will need to develop an applied budget work program that will ensure accountability in these sectors, and also enable them to train and empower other community members. The workshop brought together representatives of 23 national organizations drawn from various non-governmental organizations involved in budget monitoring, or the development of monitoring processes and tools, with a view to developing a supportive community of practice across the country. The event provided an opportunity to highlight the initial efforts of the social sectors budget monitoring in the country by very few local organizations, using a specific case study in which participants were able to gain know-how for better, more effective budget monitoring. The training also intended to build the interest and capacity of local NGOs to recognize national budget monitoring as a key activity in which they must engage if they want to influence decision-making. The event took place at a time when the Angolan Government had just finished revising the state budget, which provided the World Bank country economist with an opportunity to present and explain to participants the implications of the financial crisis on the country’s economy and the reasons why the state budget was revised. The World Bank is currently developing Angola’s Country Partnership Strategy, which will guide its operations in the country over the period 2010-2013. Angola Home Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.