World Bank Group in Vienna --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work Europe and Central Asia brief BRIEF World Bank Group in Vienna October 1, 2025 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> The World Bank Group's office in Vienna. The World Bank Group (WBG) office in Vienna supports countries and companies in Europe and Central Asia by providing expertise, knowledge, and lending to address their most pressing development challenges and invest in private sector growth. With over 300 employees, it stands as the largest WBG office in Europe, underscoring its significance within the institution’s global footprint. The WBG’s presence in Vienna dates back to 2007 when, with the support of the Austrian government, the Investment Climate Vienna Office was launched. Since then, the office has undergone significant expansion in multiple phases. Strategically located at the crossroads of Europe, Vienna provides the WBG with a unique opportunity to leverage its proximity to the ECA region. This enables building stronger relationships with clients and facilitating support for them more effectively. In 2013, the position of World Bank Director for the Western Balkans was moved to Vienna. Beyond serving as the head of the office, the Director also leads the World Bank's lending programs and analytical work in Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, North Macedonia, Montenegro, and Serbia, to support their economic development and preparation for eventual European Union membership. In 2017, Vienna started to host the regional office for Central and Eastern Europe of the International Finance Corporation (IFC) , a member of the WBG and the largest global development institution focused on the private sector in emerging markets. The office hosts the Regional Director, many Regional Managers, and core industry and support teams working across the region. The Vienna team also manages IFC relationships with Austrian clients and partners. In addition to Investment Climate Vienna Office, the WBG office in Vienna houses several programs supported by the Austrian Government , including: Financial Sector Advisory Services Center (FinSAC) Danube Water Program (DWP) Center for Financial Reporting Reform (CFRR) GovTech Global Partnership (GTGP) ECA Cities and Climate Change Program The Western Balkans Green Recovery and Support Program 75 YEARS OF PARTNERSHIP In 2023, Austria celebrated the 75th anniversary of its membership in the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), commonly known as the World Bank. After witnessing the substantial benefits of IBRD support in the aftermath of World War II, Austria, represented by the Federal Ministry of Finance, evolved into a trusted and contributing partner. To commemorate this milestone anniversary, a high-level event was hosted in Vienna, attended by the World Bank's Senior Managing Director, Axel van Trotsenburg. Axel van Trotsenburg attending the 75th anniversary event. " The 75th anniversary of Austria becoming a member of the World Bank reminds us of the value of strong partnerships, especially during turbulent times. Austria is a valued and steadfast partner of the World Bank as we work together to confront the multiple crises facing Europe and the world. " Axel van Trotsenburg World Bank's Senior Managing Director Contact Information: The World Bank Group office in Vienna Praterstrasse 31 - 1st Floor 1020 Vienna, Austria Phone: +43 (0)1 2170 797 Email: vienna@worldbank.org Media Contact: Filip Kochan Senior External Affairs Officer Email: fkochan@worldbank.org Austria Europe and Central Asia Related Vienna Development Knowledge Center Brochure: Austria and World Bank — 75 years of Partnership Building a Better Future Video Previous 1 / 2 Next Video VIDEO Austria and World Bank: 75 Years of Partnership Building a Better Future Video VIDEO World Bank Group in Vienna --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.