Maritime - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Maritime Discover datasets for marine transportation, a critical part of our transportation system used for domestic and international trade, national security, research, and recreation. Explore data related to mapping and charting, energy use, commodity movement, international trade and finance, environmental sustainability, and more. Hydrosurvey Data Archive for Federal Navigation Projects July 27, 2021 By Marin Kress The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) performs hydrographic surveys (hydrosurveys) for federal navigation projects around the U.S. Federal navigation projects include an estimated 25,000 miles of channels and form a key part of U.S. maritime infrastructure… Continued After the storms - Research on How to Improve Marine Transportation System Resilience after the 2017 Hurricane Season December 18, 2019 By Marin Kress A 2018 report from the U.S. Committee on the Marine Transportation System (CMTS) gathered recommendations and ‘lessons learned’ from the 2017 hurricane season on how to improve resiliency across the marine transportation system. The report notes that “over the course… Continued Of Sturgeon and Ships March 7, 2019 By Marin Kress The [U.S. Coast Guard](https://www.navcen.uscg.gov/) maintains an archive of historical vessel position movements, collected through the Nationwide Automatic Identification System (NAIS). Originally designed to improve maritime safety and security… Continued Safety at Sea – U.S. Coast Guard Marine Casualty and Pollution Data for Researchers December 7, 2017 By Marin Kress The U.S. Coast Guard (USCG) is responsible for investigating reportable marine casualties, accidents, and serious marine incidents. The relevant mission statement and specific regulations can be found on the [USCG Investigations Division homepage](https://homeport.uscg.mil/Lists/Content/DispForm.aspx?ID=2602). After an incident… Continued Northeast Ocean Data Portal – Providing a Common Picture of New England’s Ocean Uses November 8, 2017 By Marin Kress The North Atlantic ocean is a busy place, full of sea life, ships, and – fortunately – a slew of data. Anyone interested in local, state, or regional marine planning efforts in New England can visit the [Northeast Ocean Data portal](https://www.northeastoceandata.org/) (http://www.northeastoceandata.org/), which provides… Continued The California Seafloor and Coastal Mapping Program benefits from shared data August 15, 2017 By Marin Kress The [California Seafloor and Coastal Mapping Program](https://www.opc.ca.gov/category/programs-seafloor-and-coastal-mapping/) has brought together federal, state, and local stakeholders to develop and share an extensive variety of seafloor-mapping datasets… Continued Visualizing ocean traffic on Marine Cadastre June 12, 2017 By Marin Kress When viewed from the shore the ocean may seem like a boundless resource with plenty of space, but the reality is quite different. Coastal areas are home to shipping lanes used by commercial vessels, attractive fish habitat that supports commercial and… Continued Ferrying data to the public through the USDOT National Census of Ferry Operators April 4, 2017 By Marin Kress For many Americans, maritime transportation plays a role in their daily commute to work. Understanding usage patterns and operational expenditures at different ferry operators can help transportation planners learn more about how ferries are used in different parts of the… Continued Stormy weather - 150+ years of hurricane tracks in the Atlantic Ocean February 15, 2017 By Marin Kress Interested in seeing where and when hurricanes might have affected commercial navigation or port activities around the world? The NOAA Historical Hurricane Tracks online tool allows anyone to search and view storm tracks as far back as 1848. Only want the want to find … Continued A Maritime Topic for a Maritime Nation October 19, 2016 By Marin Kress We are excited to launch the Maritime Topic on Data.gov, a place where the diverse datasets… Continued About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov