Resources - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Back to climate , updates Resources February 20, 2014 Coastal communities are becoming increasingly vulnerable to the risk of damage from coastal inundation. In the northeast, Hurricane Sandy was a stark reminder of the potential damage a single storm can cause. These additional resources listed below will allow you to create tools and provide information to help communities prepare for coastal inundation. Through the use of data, visualizations, and simulations, you can help people understand their exposure to coastal inundation hazards and their increased vulnerability due to population increase and sea level rise. Current Flood Risk: The FEMA National Flood Hazard Layer # ArcGISOnline Tool REST Service (directory only) Download Sea Level Rise and Coastal Flooding Impacts # Digital Coast Tool REST Services Future Flood Risk Information for New York and New Jersey (Post-Sandy) # Online Tool ArcGIS Online Maps # New Jersey and New York State New York City REST Services (New York and New Jersey 2050 and 2100 and New York City 2050) Download (registration required) Coastal Erosion and Vulnerability # Shoreline change, Sea-Level Vulnerability, extreme storms coastal erosion hazards Composite Inundation Hazards for the Hurricane Sandy Impact Area Spatial extents of multiple flood hazard data sets combined. Flood hazard data sets include shallow coastal flooding, FEMA flood data (V zones, A zones, and 500-year zones treated as individual layers), storm surge for category 3 hurricane, and sea level rise of 3 feet above mean high tide. Coastal Flood Frequency # This dataset depicts the extent of flood-prone coastal areas based on predicted water levels exceeding specific tidal heights as issued by local National Weather Service offices. Tool Homepage REST Service Download Socio-Economic Data # Social Vulnerability Index (SoVI) Census Block Groups (2000) – University of South Carolina Hazards and Vulnerability Research Institute Index measuring the social vulnerability of Census block groups to environmental hazards REST Service Download (Tool) Economics: National Ocean Watch (ENOW) # Contributing Partners : Bureau of Economic Analysis, NOAA Coastal Services Center, Bureau of Labor Statistics ENOW is time-series data on the Ocean and Great Lakes Economy, which includes six economic sectors that depend on the oceans and Great Lakes. ENOW is available for counties, states, and the nation in a wide variety of formats. Tool Homepage Tool Wizard REST Service Download Historical Hurricane Tracks # Contributing Partners : NOAA Coastal Services Center Enables viewers to find tropical cyclone data in the Atlantic and Eastern Pacific Basins Tool Homepage REST Service Download U.S. Geoplatform # Contributing Partners : U.S. Geological Survey Geospatial resources are available from the geoplatform. About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov