Informing sustainable land-use policies Who We Are News FEATURE STORY June 30, 2024 Informing sustainable land-use policies Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina PROGREEN is helping Argentina build the evidence base on reducing forest degradation in its Gran Chaco and Yungas regions, where more than 80% of the country’s deforestation is concentrated. PROGREEN supports countries in addressing rural livelihood development and landscape restoration while tackling declining biodiversity, forest loss, and deteriorating land fertility. Through a $12 million grant to a $45 million IBRD loan, PROGREEN finances analytics to inform Argentinian policymakers and stakeholders on ways to positively impact communities’ livelihoods, while supporting efforts to halt deforestation and reduce forest degradation. This includes a study on fiscal and economic incentives for sustainable landscape management. The research provides crucial insights into the regulatory framework for environmental services in the Chaco and Yungas region and reveals the lack of funding undermining Argentina's Forest Law in 2007. Acquiring insights into the budgetary allocation of such a pivotal law is essential for making well-informed and effective decisions. The study offers strategies, such as easing the tax burden on landowners with native forests and introducing agglomeration bonds. PROGREEN also supports an agriculture sector review to identify opportunities for enhancing Argentina’s livestock sector competitiveness and resilience while improving the sector’s inclusiveness and reducing its carbon footprint. A field assessment of the mammal and bird diversity on forest-based cattle ranching systems seeks to generate first-hand information on how different cattle management practices impact biodiversity across diverse landscapes. The activities in this story were implemented with the generous support of the following development partners: Germany, Sweden, United Kingdom. For more information on how trust funds help coordinate, innovate and catalyze development action, please see the World Bank Group’s FY24 Trust Fund Annual Report . Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×