World Bank Vice President Concludes First Official Visit to Nepal Who We Are News PRESS RELEASE September 5, 2025 World Bank Vice President Concludes First Official Visit to Nepal Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Emphasizes Job Creation as Central to Nepal’s Transformational Growth KATHMANDU, September 5, 2025 — World Bank Vice President for South Asia, Johannes Zutt, concluded his first official visit to Nepal today. During his 5-day visit he met with Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Bishnu Paudel, Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Urban Development Prakash Man Singh, and Governor of Nepal Rastra Bank Dr. Biswo Poudel. “It is truly a pleasure to come back to Nepal after 10 years to see the progress made in consolidating the peace, improving services, ending load-shedding, and recovering from the 2015 earthquake and the covid pandemic,” said Zutt . “It was good to hear representatives of the government, the private sector, and development partners talking about Nepal’s achievements in agribusiness, tourism, information technology and other growth areas, the importance of further reform to extend these achievements, and what the World Bank Group can do to help,” he added . In his meetings, Zutt discussed the World Bank Group’s new Country Partnership Framework for Nepal, which is fully aligned with the Government’s 16 th Plan and focuses squarely on two of Nepal’s most pressing development challenges: job creation and disaster resilience. The World Bank Group aims to make available about $2.7 billion between 2025 and 2031 under the country partnership framework. A key objective will be creating more and better jobs, through improving the business environment to boost competitiveness and investment, including in tourism and digital development. “With around 500,000 young people joining the workforce every year in Nepal, the urgency to create jobs that lift families out of poverty and drive sustainable development has never been more critical. We remain focused on working with the government, entrepreneurs, and other stakeholders to support reforms and bring investments that will unlock job-creating growth,” said Zutt. Zutt assumed his role as World Bank Vice President for South Asia on July 1, 2025. He also served as the World Bank’s Country Director for Nepal from 2013 through 2015. Last Updated: Sep 05, 2025 Contacts Kathmandu Akash Shrestha ashrestha9@worldbank.org Washington, DC Diana Chung dchung1@worldbank.org RELATED Read World Bank Group's Country Partnership Framework for Nepal Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×