Taking the Pulse of Africa’s Economy Where We Work Home This page in: EN --> dropdown Français This page in: _ English Français --> dropdown publication April 8, 2019 Taking the Pulse of Africa’s Economy Latest Issue: April 2019 Latest Issue: April 2019 --> Email Print Tweet Share Share LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Africa’s Pulse is a biannual analysis of the near-term macroeconomic outlook for the region, published around the World Bank/IMF Spring and Annual meetings each April and October. Each issue also includes a special focus on a particular development challenge that is shaping Africa’s economic future. It is produced by the Office of the Chief Economist for the Africa Region of the World Bank. WASHINGTON, April 8, 2019 – The growth story in Sub-Saharan Africa in the past few years has been one of faltering recovery from the worst economic crisis of the past two decades. This remains the case according to the April 2019, 19th edition of Africa’s Pulse , which estimates GDP growth in 2018 at a lower-than-expected 2.3%, with a forecast to 2.8% in 2019. “Three years past the crisis period, we should be seeing a more widespread pickup in growth; instead we have downgraded our estimates again for 2018,” said Gerard Kambou, World Bank Senior Economist for Africa. “Leaders in Sub-Saharan Africa have the opportunity to build stronger domestic policies to withstand global volatility – and now is the time to act.” The report notes that the three largest African economies—Nigeria, Angola and South Africa—play a big role in the region’s growth. While Nigeria grew faster in 2018 than in 2017, thanks to a modest pick-up in the non-oil economy, growth remained below 2%. Angola continued its recession, with growth falling sharply as oil production stayed weak. South Africa came out of recession in the third quarter of 2018, but growth was subdued mostly due to policy uncertainty weakening investor confidence. Growth performance was mixed in 2018 across the rest of the continent. Growth in resource-intensive economies was buoyed by stronger commodity prices and higher mining production, according to the Pulse, but also benefited from higher agricultural production and more public investment in the necessary infrastructure to connect people and goods to markets. Reform efforts in the Central African Economic and Monetary Community are beginning to bear fruit, although there are signs that reforms are slowing down in a few places. And non-resource-intensive economies such as Kenya, Rwanda, Uganda, and several in the West African Economic and Monetary Union, including Benin and Côte d’Ivoire recorded solid economic growth in 2018. The report also outlines issues which continue to hold back growth across the region—debt and fragility. It is not just the growing amount of debt, but also the type of debt that countries are taking on that is leading to widespread vulnerabilities. External debt is shifting from traditional, concessional, publicly-guaranteed sources to more private, market-based, and expensive sources of finance, putting countries at risk. By the end of 2018, nearly half of the countries in Sub-Saharan Africa covered under the Low-Income Country Debt Sustainability Framework were at high risk of debt distress or in debt distress, more than double the number in 2013. Low growth in just a handful of fragile countries costs the continent more than half a percentage point of growth per year, the report finds. That is 2.6 percentage points over five years. The report recommends countries focus on building state capacity and strong institutions that secure peace and stability, as well as deliver better services to their people to rebuild the social and economic foundation needed for a successful future. “As the nature and the causes of fragility evolve, the approach to overcome it becomes more complex,” said Cesar Calderon, Lead Economist and lead author of the Pulse. “It increasingly requires collective solutions. Regional and sub-regional institutions are needed to address peace and security challenges as well as economic shocks that spill over national borders.” The report also highlights the opportunities on the horizon for Sub-Saharan Africa, including the digital revolution. The continent is at an important inflection point of demand for and support for the digital transformation, and the African Union recently endorsed the aspiration that every individual, business, and government across the African continent will be connected to the internet and can reap the benefits. This can pay huge dividends in terms of inclusive growth, innovation, job creation, service delivery, and poverty reduction in Africa. Across the African continent, including sub-Saharan and North Africa, the digital transformation could increase growth per capita by 1.5 percentage points per year and reduce the poverty headcount by .7 percentage points per year, according to the report. In Sub-Saharan Africa alone, the digital revolution can increase growth by nearly two percentage points per year and reduce poverty by nearly one percentage point per year. When paired with stronger investments in human capital, impacts across the African continent can be more than doubled. Impacts are greater if expansion of the digital economy is accompanied by regulations that create a vibrant business climate, skills that allow workers to access the jobs of the future, and accountable institutions that use the internet to empower citizens. RELATED WORLD BANK FULL REPORT: Africa's Pulse - April 2019 PRESS RELEASE: Growth in Sub-Saharan Africa Remains Below Three Percent Three Years After Crisis WEBSITES Office of the Chief Economist, Africa Region (AFRCE) The World Bank in Africa Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->