São Tomé and Príncipe: World Bank Boosts Social Protection and Resilience for 27,500 People Who We Are News PRESS RELEASE October 14, 2025 São Tomé and Príncipe: World Bank Boosts Social Protection and Resilience for 27,500 People Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina WASHINGTON, October 14, 2025 – The World Bank and the Government of São Tomé and Príncipe signed an agreement for $6 million in additional financing to support the Social Protection, Resilience, and Recovery Project . This collaboration seeks to enhance existing social protection initiatives while introducing innovative approaches aimed at accelerating poverty reduction, fostering economic inclusion, and promoting climate adaptation strategies. While there has been notable progress in social protection in São Tomé and Príncipe (STP), the country continues to encounter structural challenges that are often experienced by small and remote island nations. Its isolation limits economic diversification and heightens vulnerability to external shocks, leading to slow economic growth, widespread poverty, and elevated unemployment rates, particularly among the youth. The signing of the additional financing agreement represents more than a financial transaction—it is a commitment to inclusive growth, resilience, and opportunity for STP’s most vulnerable citizens. By scaling up proven interventions and introducing innovative approaches, the project is poised to deliver lasting impact, helping families transition from vulnerability to sustainable livelihoods and building a more resilient future for the nation With this additional financing, the Bank’s overall contribution to the project stands at $24 million. “A new pilot productive inclusion program will support members of beneficiary households in starting or expanding income-generating activities. This initiative includes training in micro-entrepreneurship, business management, and financial literacy, as well as technical training in priority trades with climate adaptation technique,” said Juan Carlos Alvarez, World Banck Country Manager for São Tomé and Príncipe . “The program will have a strong gender focus, ensuring that at least half of participants are women, with tailored outreach and support.” Contacts: In Luanda: Wilson P. M. Piassa, 244 923754729, wpiassa@worldbank.org PRESS RELEASE NO: 2026/014/AFE RELATED The World Bank in São Tomé and Príncipe Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×