Western Balkans Labor Market Trends 2017 --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work Europe and Central Asia publication Western Balkans Labor Market Trends 2017 Latest Issue: No.1, 2017 Latest Issue: No.1, 2017 --> Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Western Balkan countries increased employment by roughly 300,000 jobs between 2010 and 2016. However, this rate of job creation is not enough to address the many challenges in the Western Balkan labor markets. Labor markets in the Western Balkan countries—comprising Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, FYR Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia—are characterized by low employment rates and high unemployment by European standards. As elsewhere in Europe, almost the entire region is facing an ageing and shrinking population due to low birth rates and high emigration. In this report, labor market developments in the Western Balkan countries in the period 2010-2016 are presented and compared with selected member states of the European Union (EU). As comparators, the report uses four countries that joined the EU at different times over the last 25 years, namely Austria (1995), Hungary (2004), Bulgaria (2007), and Croatia (2013). The analysis uses labor force survey data provided by the Statistical Offices of the individual Western Balkan countries and by Eurostat for the EU comparator countries. Report highlights: Western Balkan countries increased employment by roughly 300,000 jobs since 2010, from an estimated 5.5 million in 2010 to 5.8 million in 2016. However, this rate of job creation is not enough to address the many challenges in the Western Balkan labor markets. Unemployment declined during this period by an estimated 200,000 people, from 23 to 21 percent, but inactivity remains high, especially among women, the low-educated, and youth. In addition, informal employment and long-term unemployment remain a significant challenge in the region. The winners among the recent employment recovery are workers aged 55 and older as well as the highly educated. The losers, on the other hand, are the low-educated, especially low-educated youth. Overall, youth unemployment levels remain critically high. No significant impact of economic growth on employment growth is currently observed in the aftermath of the financial crisis in the Western Balkans, and the impact of growth on unemployment is small. Therefore, the Western Balkan countries are not yet in a situation whereby the current levels of economic growth guarantee a return to job growth. The transition to modern market economies is not yet complete, and many structural issues remain to be addressed. The full report and the accompanying database are available on the website of the Jobs Gateway in South Eastern Europe - SEE Jobs Gateway . The SEE Jobs Gateway is a community of practice for labor market policies in the Western Balkan which brings together policy makers, academics, and experts from international organizations who regularly exchange ideas and learn from the experience of other countries with regard to labor market policies. Most members are from or have an interest in the Western Balkan region, comprising Albania, Bosnia and Hercegovina, FYR Macedonia, Kosovo, Montenegro and Serbia. Full report Western Balkans Labor Market Trends 2017 RELATED PRESS RELEASE Employment in the Western Balkans Up by Six Percent Since 2010 According to New Regional Database WEBSITE SEE Jobs Gateway MULTIMEDIA Video VIDEO Creating Jobs in Western Balkans: Connecting People with Opportunities Albania Europe and Central Asia Bosnia and Herzegovina Kosovo Montenegro North Macedonia Serbia View More + --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.