Integrated Urban Water Management --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work Latin America and Caribbean BRIEF Integrated Urban Water Management November 13, 2013 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Matanza Riachuelo in Argentina. World Bank As a result of rapid and unplanned urban growth, heightened vulnerability to climate change, and relatively poor water management practices, a growing number of cities in Latin America and the Caribbean (LCR) are struggling with problems of water scarcity, watershed pollution, inadequate service provision, and increased flooding, directly affecting their population's quality of life and economic prospects. These problems are often compounded by the fact that they are being addressed in a disconnected way, by different actors across neighboring jurisdictions. The World Bank's LCR Blue Water Green Cities initiative seeks to learn from the tremendous experience of Latin American cities, many of them World Bank clients, in dealing with these challenges; and propose a concrete approach – Integrated Urban Water Management (IUWM) – to support municipal actors in addressing these urban water challenges in a cleaner, more efficient, more resilient and more equitable manner by working across sectors and spatial boundaries. BLOG - Integrated Water Management in Cities: Can we get it right this time? While on its path to becoming the largest city in the Americas, Sao Paulo used its natural capital - water - to generate electricity, fuel industry, and satiate its ever-growing population. Read more PUBLICATIONS The Blue Water Green Cities Initiative started in 2009 and the following seven cities were identified as flagships for support and technical assistance on IUWM: Buenos Aires (Argentina), Bogota (Colombia), Sao Paulo (Brazil), Tegucigalpa (Honduras), Aracajú (Brazil) and Asuncion (Paraguay). Blue Water Green Cities publications are now available here . INTERNATIONAL WORKSHOP: INTEGRATED URBAN WATER MANAGEMENT For the presentations and agendas of the event click here . VIDEO Water in Mexico: towards efficiency and environmental protection . RESOURCES FOR IUWM Click here to learn more. WIKIPEDIA PILOT PROJECTS Click here to learn more. This Integrated Urban Water Management Initiative has been made possible by The Water Partnership Program . Argentina Latin America and Caribbean Urban Development Brazil Colombia Honduras Paraguay Water View More + RELATED WEBSITE SWITCH Urban Water WEBSITE Global Water Partnership IUWM WEBSITE Global Development Research Center (GDRC) IUWM --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.