Improving Financial Reporting for Clean Growth in Sri Lanka --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Improving Financial Reporting for Clean Growth in Sri Lanka July 29, 2015 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> The World Bank STORY HIGHLIGHTS Following the financial crisis of the late 1990s, The World Bank and the IMF released the Reports on the Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSC) to highlight the major role international standards and best practices should play in strengthening national and international financial systems. The ROSC on Accounting and Auditing (ROSC A&A), one module of the ROSC program, was first carried out in 2004 in Sri Lanka as the country context was changing significantly. Sri Lanka has made progress in financial reporting and aligning with international standards for "clean" growth since the last ROSC in 2004. Nevertheless challenges remain in making significant reforms. Any small business needs to access financial resources or attract investors to expand and grow. Banks require credible financial statements to process a loan. Likewise, investors request reliable and comprehensive financial records to assess a prospective company’s reliability prior to making an investment decision. A country is similar to a small business and needs to adopt internationally accepted financial reporting standards to attract investors and spur its growth. Such standards guarantee the country’s accountability toward achieving "clean" growth. The Reports on the Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSC) was first created in the wake of the financial crisis of the late 1990s. The Executive Board of the World Bank and IMF identified 12 important areas and standards needed to sustain both institutions’ macroeconomic stability and operational work. The ROSC Accounting and Auditing (ROSC A&A) review is part of their joint initiative. Implementation Progress and Challenges Ahead Sri Lanka has taken significant strides in improving the quality of its financial reporting since the ROSC A&A was last completed in 2004 . Seven out of 14 policy recommendations have been fully implemented while 5 remain in progress. “ We are happy to note that Sri Lanka has made significant progress towards adopting international financial reporting standards including simplified standards ,” said Jiwanka Wickramasinghe, Senior Financial Sector Specialist at the World Bank. “ Since the last ROSC ,” she further noted, “ the country has improved its professional accountancy education syllabi and made it more relevant to the industry sector by incorporating international standards. ” The ROSC 2015 highlights areas of improvement to make Sri Lanka’s financial reporting system more transparent and attractive to foreign investors. These are: • Regulating registered auditors, • introducing mandatory quality assurance processes to accredit institutions delivering accountancy education, and • Monitoring closely the quality of practical training. RELATED WORLD BANK World Bank in Sri Lanka ROSC 2015 EXTERNAL World Bank report sheds light on Sri Lanka’s unregulated audit industry WB laments public sector accounting standards World Bank Sri Lanka on Facebook World Bank South Asia on Twitter Sri Lanka South Asia Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.