Greening Attock, One Drop at a Time --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Greening Attock, One Drop at a Time May 27, 2014 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> World Bank STORY HIGHLIGHTS In Attock District Punjab, both per unit land and per cubic meter of water, the productivity is much lower than the international standards and poorer than neighboring countries having similar agrarian conditions. Surface water available to farms is not enough to meet needs and irrigate even a fraction of cultivable land. The World Bank assisted Punjab Irrigated Agriculture Productivity Improvement Project (PIPIP) is helping farmers to adopt High Efficiency Irrigation Systems for cultivation; increasing efficiency of irrigation conveyance network, enhanced productivity, and mobilizing farming communities to share investment costs. Attock, Punjab, Pakistan – Attock District in Pakistan's province of Punjab is dotted with sandy plains, small plateaus and views of the Kala Chitta Mountains. Despite having immensely fertile land across the district, inhabitants still stick to centuries-old irrigation practices. The economy of the district is mainly agriculture-based with peanuts, wheat, maize, millets, grams, corn and pulses being the main crops. Peanuts are a major cash crop in Attock. Around 90% of the water in Attock is used for agricultural purposes, although surface water supplies do not meet irrigation requirements, and Attock depends mostly on rainfall to meet these agricultural needs. As one enters Attock through Tehsil Hazro (a smaller sub-unit of the district), newly grown orchards are refreshing to one’s eyes, astonishing to see oranges in the land of peanuts. The main obstacle of low productivity from the otherwise highly productive land is the inadequate availability and the improper use of water. Ghulam Asghar the Deputy District Officer of Tehsil Hazro explains, “Due to the lack of water supply to the fields the productivity is much lower than the international standards and poorer than our neighboring countries having similar agrarian conditions.” The World Bank supported Punjab Irrigated Agriculture Productivity Improvement Project (PIPIP) has greatly helped to improve water productivity in the district, “through High Efficiency Irrigation System (HEIS),” says Asghar. “Due to this project, farmers have also started multi-cropping, which is a fairly new concept in Pakistan.” Rustam Khan, a farmer in Tehsil Hazro candidly talks about one of the widely used components of PIPIP, drip irrigation, which is making multi-cropping possible in a place where water is a rare commodity. “On this land, we used to just grow peanuts and pray for rain. The surface water available to the farm was not enough to irrigate even 10% of my land. Ever since we have been introduced to drip irrigation, there is a positive change in our lives. Now people from all over the Tehsil visit our farm and ask how it happened. The value of land has increased from Rs10,000 per acre to 400,000 to 500,000.” " The positive social and environmental impacts have been significant as this project increased water conservation, improved employment opportunities and enhanced social mobilization by establishing the Water Users Association. " Abdul Ghafoor Deputy District Officer Water Management, Pindigheb World Bank Regional Project Director, Bashir Ahmad says, “the project has led to increased efficiency of irrigation conveyance network, enhanced water productivity by producing more crop per drop, irrigation service delivery and mobilizing farming communities in order to share investment costs for development, improvement and management of farm level irrigation infrastructure.” Another farm owner, Amer Aziz, acquired the land in 2011 in Tehsil Pindigheb, Attock where the water table is 120 meters deep. Sharing details of the farm’s condition he said, “It was difficult to appreciate a dune-filled terrain but I bought it after thorough research and soil testing. I made full use of HEIS and used laser land leveling for this terrain, whereas, drip irrigation helped me fulfil my dream of turning this into a model farm. Now you can see the first crop which is ready for harvesting and about to hit the market.” The World Bank-assisted PIPIP interventions are demand based and environment friendly. “The positive social and environmental impacts have been significant as this project increased water conservation, improved employment opportunities and enhanced social mobilization by establishing the Water Users Association. The drip irrigation method also ensures delivery of clean water to crops, increasing productivity,” says Abdul Ghafoor, Deputy District Officer Water Management, Pindigheb. A very hopeful Bashir Ahmad, an engineer, believes that the project will soon bring very good news for the people of Attock, “Seeing is believing. I am certain that district Attock will become a prosperous valley in no time: a valley of citrus, olives and grapes.” RELATED WORLD BANK PIPIP Project Documents and Details Feature Story: Improving Punjab Irrigation: More Crops from Every Drop World Bank in Pakistan World Bank Pakistan on Facebook Pakistan Home Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.