Four Things You Should Know About Battery Storage Who We Are News FEATURE STORY May 16, 2019 Four Things You Should Know About Battery Storage Email Print Tweet Share Share LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> This story is part of a series that will run ahead of the third edition of the Innovate4Climate (I4C): the preeminent global event on climate finance, climate investment and climate markets. I4C will take place in Singapore from 4-7 June 2019. It brings together business, finance, policy and technology leaders to accelerate action on financing climate-smart development. This edition will focus on green finance, clean cooling, battery storage, climate-smart urban design, Asian climate markets and much more. Watch the live streaming of the Summit on June 6th and use the #Innovate4Climate hashtag to join the conversation and get the latest updates. Registration is NOW open to join the best green finance minds at #Innovate4Climate , June 4-7 Get your pass and be part of the future of climate action: http://wrld.bg/AEDq30ow44J --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The global energy landscape is undergoing a major transformation. This year’s Innovate4Climate (I4C) will have a priority focus on battery storage, helping to identify ways to overcome the technology, policy and financing barriers to deploy batteries widely and close the global energy storage gap. First, energy storage is key to realizing the potential of clean energy Renewable sources of energy, mainly solar and wind, are getting cheaper and easier to deploy in developing countries, helping expand energy access, aiding global efforts to reach the Sustainable Development Goal on Energy (SDG7) and to mitigate climate change. But solar and wind energy are variable by nature, making it necessary to have an at-scale, tailored solution to store the electricity they produce and use it when it is needed most. Batteries are a key part of the solution. However, the unique requirements of developing countries’ grids are not yet fully considered in the current market for battery storage – even though these countries may have the largest potential for battery deployment. Today’s market for batteries is driven mainly by the electric vehicles industry and most mainstream technologies cannot provide long duration storage nor withstand harsh climatic conditions and have limited operation and maintenance capacity. Many developing countries also have limited access to other flexibility options such as natural gas generation or increased transmission capacity. Second, boosting battery storage is a major opportunity Global demand for battery storage is expected to reach 2,800 gigawatt hours (GWh) by 2040 – the equivalent of storing a little more than half of all the renewable energy generated today around the world in a day. Power systems around the world will need many exponentially more storage capacity by 2050 to integrate even more solar and wind energy into the electricity grid. For battery storage to become an at-scale enabler for the storage and deployment of clean energy, it will be imperative to accelerate the innovation in and deployment of new technologies and their applications. It will also be important to foster the right regulatory and policy environments and procurement practices to drive down the cost of batteries at scale and to ensure financial arrangements that will create confidence in cost recovery for developers. It will also be essential to find ways to ensure sustainability in the battery value chain, safe working conditions and environmentally responsible recycling. With the right enabling environment and the innovative use of batteries, it will be possible to help developing countries build the flexible energy systems of the future and deliver electricity to the 1 billion people who live without it even today. Third, battery storage can be transformational for the clean energy landscape in developing countries Today, battery technology is not widely deployed in large-scale energy projects in developing countries. The gap is particularly acute in Sub-Saharan Africa, where nearly 600 million people still live without access to reliable and affordable electricity, despite the region’s significant wind and solar power potential and burgeoning energy demand. Catalyzing new markets will be key to drive down costs for batteries and make it a viable energy storage solution in Africa. Already, there is tremendous demand in the region today for energy solutions that do not just boost the uptake of clean energy, but also help stabilize and strengthen existing electricity grids and aid the global push to adopt more clean energy and fight against climate change. Fourth, the World Bank is stepping up its catalytic role in boosting battery storage solutions There is a clear need to catalyze a new market for batteries and other storage solutions that are suitable for electricity grids for a variety of applications and deployable on a large scale. The World Bank is already taking steps to address this challenge. In 2018, the World Bank Group announced a $1 billion global battery storage program , aiming to raise $4 billion more in private and public funds to create markets and help drive down prices for batteries, so it can be deployed as an affordable and at-scale solution in middle-income and developing countries. By 2025, the World Bank expects to finance 17.5 GWh of battery storage – more than triple the 4-5 GWh currently installed in developing countries. With the right solutions, it can be possible to build large-scale renewable energy projects with significant energy storage components, deploy batteries to stabilize power grids in countries with weak infrastructure, and increase off-grid access to communities that are ready for clean energy with storage. The World Bank has already financed over 15% of grid-related battery storage in various stages of deployment in developing countries to date. In Haiti, a combined solar and battery storage project will ultimately provide electricity to 800,000 people and 10,000 schools, clinics and other institutions. An emergency solar and battery storage power plant is being built in the Gambia, as are mini-grids in several island states to boost their resilience. In India, a joint WB-IFC team is developing one of the largest hybrid solar, wind and storage power plants in the world, while in South Africa, the World Bank is helping develop 1.44 gigawatt-hours of battery storage capacity, which is expected to be the largest project of its kind in Sub-Saharan Africa. Watch this space on May 28 for an announcement from the World Bank and the Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP) on a major initiative tied to the $1 billion battery storage program. RELATED WORLD BANK Website: #Innovate4Climate Download: Event App Watch: #Innovate4Climate Live from Singapore Watch: #Innovate4Climate Facebook Live Interviews Story: Four Things You Should Know About Sustainable Cooling Story: Four Things You Should Know About Climate-Smart Cities Api Api Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->