Community Center Provides Place for Celebration and Learning --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Community Center Provides Place for Celebration and Learning June 5, 2013 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> STORY HIGHLIGHTS A community center built under the National Solidarity Program (NSP) in the Enjil district in Herat Province represents a lifeline for many residents, who use it for social and educational activities. The NSP is the government’s flagship program, supported by the World Bank, ARTF, JSDF, and several bilateral donors aim at strengthening local community institutions through reconstruction and development projects. Communities, through a community development council, decide themselves on priority projects to be funded, with more than 80% opting for rural infrastructure improvement. HERAT, Afghanistan – It’s a place of endless prayer. Every day, the community center at Hous-Karbas plays host to weddings, funerals, and hundreds of children who recite the Quran for hours in an upstairs room. Here, Afghan vilagers also socialize, learn stitching or shed illiteracy by taking classes. “In so many ways, this place has been an answer to our prayers,” says Safia, a member of the community development council (CDC), which helps oversee activities at the center in the Enjil district, on the outskirts of Herat city in western Afghanistan . Together with nine men and seven women on the CDC, the group applied for funds from the National Solidarity Program (NSP) four years ago to build the center. NSP is the Afghan government’s flagship program aimed at strengthening and developing communities, supported by the World Bank, Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF), Japan Social Development Fund (JSDF), and several bilateral donors. Under the program, communities elect their own CDCs, which then set about determining their priorities. So far, about 80% have pursued infrastructure improvements such as water supply, irrigation, roads, and electricity. Improved village life In Hous-Karbas, where about 1,000 families earn their income primarily from farming, tiny factories, and irregular manual jobs, a community center was needed because there was no space to gather in large numbers, says CDC head Haji Abdullah. “This was very important for us, to have a place for celebrations, but also so more of our children could study the Quran,” he says. " Many people are really poor here, and most are illiterate, so they’re really happy this project happened, so they can learn to read, write, or make money for their families. Just staying at home is a waste of time. This place has been really useful for us. " Safia Community Development Council member “Since we created this place, our village life has improved and security is much better,” remarks Abdullah. Women wanted a place where they could gather, since they are not permitted at the mosque, says council member Rozia Omarzai. “Now our children can study upstairs, while we can do literacy, tailoring and other classes downstairs. We also get out of our homes to meet with other ladies,” she says with a shy smile. “Our country is improving and we like to come here, and work step by step with other villagers to build our community.” Naseeba Sharifi, another council member, says she recently held her aunt’s funeral at the center. The place was so crowded that people came in two shifts to remember her elderly relative, recite the Quran, and share a meal served from the center’s small kitchen. Most recently, Sharifi has been learning to crochet and knit items to sell at the local market, so she can add to her family’s income. Safia says the center represents a lifeline for many community members. “Many people are really poor here, and most are illiterate, so they’re really happy this project happened, so they can learn to read, write or make money for their families,” she says. “Just staying at home is a waste of time. This place has been really useful for us.” RELATED WORLD BANK National Solidarity Program documents and details World Bank in Afghanistan World Bank South Asia on Facebook EXTERNAL Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF) National Solidarity Program NSP on Facebook Afghanistan Home Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.