AM Joins Other IAMs at Workshops for CSOs in the Caribbean and Central Africa Skip to Main Navigation The World Bank Accountability Mechanism Briefs BRIEF November 17, 2021 AM Joins Other IAMs at Workshops for CSOs in the Caribbean and Central Africa Email Print Tweet Share Share LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> The World Bank Accountability Mechanism (AM) in mid-November joined other independent accountability mechanisms (IAMs) in explaining their mandates and operations to civil society representatives in the Caribbean and Central Africa. On November 15 and 16, Inspection Panel Operations Officer Birgit Kuba and AM Senior External Affairs Officer Rob Doherty joined representatives of the Compliance Advisor Ombudsman (CAO) and the IAMs of the Inter-American Development Bank and the United Nations Development Programme at a workshop organized by the Caribbean Development Bank’s Office of Integrity, Compliance and Accountability. At the workshop, which was attended by more than two dozen civil society representatives from 11 countries in the region, the IAM representatives discussed their overall missions, how to file a complaint, and their compliance review and dispute resolution processes, and responded to questions on a range of issues. On November 18, Inspection Panel Member Ramanie Kunanayagam and Mr. Doherty took part in a workshop led by the IAM of the African Development Bank for civil society representatives in six French-speaking countries in Central Africa. At the workshop, which also included CAO and the European Investment Bank’s Compliance Mechanism, Mr. Doherty explained the work of the Inspection Panel and Dispute Resolution Service, and discussed issues related to reprisals aimed at those involved in complaints to the IAMs. The Inspection Panel on December 8 will release the latest report in its Emerging Lessons Series titled, “Right to Be Heard: Intimidation and Reprisals in World Bank Inspection Panel Complaints.” The AM continues to organize virtual outreach events for civil society during the COVID-19 pandemic. The workshops are intended to make our work known to people whose rights and interests may be affected by World Bank projects. If you are interested in partnering on the workshop, please email us at accountability@worldbank.org . Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->