Event | ECA Talk: Should We Encourage Migration Through Policy Interventions? Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events ECA Talk: Should We Encourage Migration Through Policy Interventions? Share Overview Speakers In this talk, Professor Mobarak will present data that highlights the unique challenges of living in remote, rural areas, including the scarcity of livelihood opportunities and the complexities involved in delivering public services to address these issues. Then he will explore innovative solutions designed to overcome these barriers, drawing on several impact evaluation projects that rigorously assess such interventions. The discussion will also cover policies aimed at easing migration out of remote regions. It will examine whether concerns about "brain drain" should cause policymakers to reconsider efforts that facilitate this migration. Mushfiq Mobarak Speaker Professor of Economics at Yale University Professor Ahmed Mushfiq Mobarak is the Jerome Kasoff ’54 Professor of Management and Economics at Yale University. He is the founder and faculty director of the Yale Research Initiative on Innovation and Scale (Y-RISE). Mobarak's research spans work on technology adoption, electrification, migration, brain drain, and refugees, to name just a few. He has several ongoing research projects in Bangladesh, Sierra Leone, and Nepal. He conducts field experiments exploring ways to induce people in developing countries to adopt technologies or behaviors that are likely to be welfare-improving. Ivailo Izvorski Chair and Host Chief Economist for the Europe and Central Asia region at the World Bank Ivailo Izvorski is the Chief Economist for the Europe and Central Asia region. He assumed this position on December 1, 2022. Since joining the World Bank in 2005 as a Senior Country Economist for Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Poverty Reduction and Economic Management sector Unit, he has held various positions — including Lead Economist and Practice Manager in Europe and Central Asia, and his most recent assignment as Practice Manager for the Global Macro, Growth and Debt unit in the Macroeconomics, Trade and Investment (MTI) Global Practice. Ivailo is one of the coauthors of Diversified Development: Making the Most of Natural Resources in Eurasia. He has worked on countries in Europe, Central Asia, East Asia and the Pacific, and Africa at the World Bank, the Institute of International Finance, and the IMF. Ivailo holds a Ph.D. in Economics from Yale University. Event Details Date: October 29, 2025 Time: 10:00 AM - 11:00 AM ET Event Contact: ecaceoffice@worldbank.org Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×