Design & Implementation: Monitoring and Evaluation --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Understanding Poverty Topics Community-Driven Development BRIEF Design & Implementation: Monitoring and Evaluation June 6, 2013 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) in community-driven development (CDD) operations is crucial in order to provide information for decision-making and improve project management, to assess development effectiveness and demonstrate results, and of particular relevance in the CDD context, to empower communities and ensure greater transparency and accountability. Monitoring refers to the regular collection and analysis of data on specific indicators to assist timely decision making, ensure accountability and provide the basis for learning. It is a continuing function that provides management and other stakeholders with valuable feedback on what is working, what isn't and why, and early indications of progress and achievement of objectives. Ongoing monitoring is integral to a flexible and responsive CDD program, and should serve as a management tool and as a means for advancing CDD goals of accountability, transparency and inclusion. Ideally, CDD programs should incorporate a range of monitoring mechanisms - data on financial and physical outputs generated by management information systems, independent audits or external monitoring by civil society groups, supervision missions, and participatory methods which actively engage key stakeholders, particularly primary beneficiaries, throughout the process. Impact evaluation assesses changes in the well-being of individuals that can be attributed to a particular project, program or policy. Despite the inherent challenges of conducting impact assessment of CDD programs, there is a growing recognition that there is a need for evidence of the actual impact of such programs and a need for insights on how to improve project performance. Thus impact evaluations are emerging as a strong priority within CDD. In order to ensure the rigor of such evaluations, it is important that they follow good practice in terms of identifying comparison groups, establishing a baseline, and mixing quantitative and qualitative methods. Because of the way that CDD projects are designed and operate, monitoring can be challenging since: Participant communities may be unknown beforehand. Outputs are usually unknown beforehand. Measuring multiple results in CDD (multi-sectoral) can be difficult Measuring social capital, empowerment can be tricky What is normally monitored in CDD Projects? Progress against workplan (inputs, outputs), for example: Are funds being used as planned? Are project interventions reaching the intended beneficiaries? Quality of inputs? Are poor, women, and vulnerable groups participating in the process? What would we like to evaluate for impact? Some examples include: Poverty/Welfare Dimensions Has CDD been effective at reducing poverty? Has it reached the poor? What are the impacts on livelihoods and employment? Infrastructure Has CDD improved access to services, quality, utilization? Are CDD projects cost effective compared to other mechanisms? Is the infrastructure maintained? Local Governance/Empowerment Do CDD projects promote improvement in local governance? Does it build stronger, more responsive local institutions? Transparency, participation, inclusion especially of women/vulnerable groups Social Dynamics Do CDD projects improve social relations and cohesion? Does it reduce incidents of conflict? Common methods for collecting data Field monitoring by government staff; Supervision missions Community participatory monitoring Case studies undertaken by independent researchers NGO/journalist independent monitoring Grievance/complaints database Financial reviews and audits Impact Evaluation : Rigorous quantitative evaluations which attribute impact on outcome indicators to the project Best practice: Treatment and Control groups measured ex-ante and ex-post project implementation Qualitative component to determine how and why impacts are occurring Infrastructure Studies : Rigorously developed methods using economists and engineers to assess sub-project infrastructure RELATED PUBLICATION What Have Been the Impacts of World Bank Community-Driven Development Programs? --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.