Update on Let’s Work Tanzania --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Update on Let’s Work Tanzania March 1, 2016 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> The Let’s Work Tanzania team has identified horticulture as the agribusiness subsector to focus on for the value chain analysis as part of its work program. The subsector selection is based on desk reviews and consultations with development partners and the private sector in Tanzania. The team will now focus on selecting the specific crops and locations for analysis. The value chain analysis will be conducted by an external firm and recruitment is underway. The team is also continuing its work on spatial analysis of firms and employment using business registry data from the Census of Registered Establishments (CRE). The preliminary analysis will be completed soon. In addition, the team is working on a model to undertake socio-economic profiling and job growth potential of tertiary towns, also known as Local Government Units (LGUs). This tool aims to inform future projects on urban planning in Tanzania, while keeping a “jobs lens,” in mind. Let’s Work is also partnering with the Imperial College of London to do an Impact Evaluation of an International Finance Corporation (IFC) and World Food Program (WFP) project aimed at raising productivity in maize farmers. The project is part of the multi-country Patient Procurement Platform (PPP) that aims to increase the productivity of smallholder farmers by making it possible for them to plant, harvest and sell enough high-quality crops to boost their income and increase food security. The platform offers these farmers much needed inputs such as quality seeds, insurance, financing, and improved market access. Tanzania Home Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.