Social Service Delivery in Violent Contexts: Achieving Results against the Odds --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work South Asia publication Social Service Delivery in Violent Contexts: Achieving Results against the Odds Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> A report from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Nepal Overview This report provides a new approach to service delivery that is specific to countries affected by violence. As many countries today are riven by conflict and internal division, some familiar procedures may be inadequate to deal with the mounting humanitarian and development challenges posed by complex conflict situations, where affected people need access to social services. This raises dilemmas about the ethical and political judgments and trade-offs that development actors frequently have to make. A key challenge is whether development actors can adapt their procedures and become less risk-averse while preserving their financial accountability and ensuring aid effectiveness. Key Findings and Recommendations Based on research in Afghanistan, Pakistan and Nepal, the report explores how the delivery of social services is affected by violent conflict and what factors are critical to successful delivery. The research shows clearly that successful delivery requires compromises and trade-offs that often necessitate negotiation between service providers, local communities and insurgents on the ground and challenge our orthodox assumptions about ‘good governance’. Specifically, the report outlines five major recommendations: think and work in a more politically savvy manner; tailor social service delivery to different forms of violence, especially at the subnational level; take elites, and bargains between them, more seriously in program design and implementation; rethink donor rules and incentives to align to these new realities; and, push the frontiers of research to develop new fit-for-purpose models of service delivery in violent contexts. While difficult to put into practice, these recommendations cannot be ignored, as progress to provide basic services in violence-affected contexts will affect efforts to end poverty and increase shared prosperity over the coming decades. Last Updated: Jun 19, 2017 Download Full Report Social Service Delivery in Violent Contexts: Achieving Results against the Odds RELATED World Bank South Asia on Facebook World Bank South Asia on Twitter BLOG Achieving results against the odds in violent contexts Contacts Kabul +93701133328 Email Islamabad 20-A Shahrah-e-Jamhuriat G-5/1 (+92-51) 9090000 Email Kathmandu Yak and Yeti Hotel Complex Durbar Marg +977 1 4236000 Email Afghanistan Home Fragility, Conflict and Violence Nepal Pakistan South Asia Inequality and Shared Prosperity Poverty View More + --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.