Event | Youth Summit 2025: New Horizons: Youth-Led Innovation for a Livable Planet Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home Notícias Youth Summit 2025: New Horizons: Youth-Led Innovation for a Livable Planet Share APPLY HERE TO BE AN ONLINE DELEGATE AT THE WBG YOUTH SUMMIT! APPLICATIONS WILL BE OPEN UNTIL 15 MAY 2025. The World Bank Group Youth Summit returns for its 12th edition, inviting young people to engage with the most urgent issues their generation faces, while bringing together thousands of participants from across the globe. This year, the summit will center on innovation in climate action, digital transformation, and the creative industries . The Youth Summit is the World Bank Group's largest annual event for youth (ages 18-35) worldwide. It will be held on May 19-20, 2025 , featuring activities and engagements both at the World Bank Group headquarters in Washington DC and across various regions. The mission of the Summit is to: Empower youth to explore innovative solutions to development challenges; Equip youth with the tools to create and participate in impactful projects ; and Foster dialogue between youth, the World Bank Group, and other key global stakeholders. Learn more about the upcoming activities and the summit theme below! For more information on the Pitch Competition, you can stream the info session HERE . Overview THEME AGENDA DELEGATES PITCH COMPETITION INNOVATION LAB STEERING COMMITTEE RELACIONADO CONTACT: Youth Summit Steering Committee youthsummit@worldbank.org The 2025 World Bank Group Youth Summit invites young changemakers, innovators, and leaders to shape a sustainable and inclusive future through bold, youth-driven solutions. Under the theme " New Horizons: Youth-Led Innovation for a Livable Planet ," this year’s summit focuses on three transformative areas: Digital Transformation & Data: Discover how youth leverage technology, including AI and big data, to drive economic growth, bridge the digital divide, and create a future-ready labor market. Food Security & Green Agriculture: Harnessing innovative technologies such as IoT, digital agriculture, renewable energies and carbon markets to promote sustainability, reduce emissions and enhance resilience. Creative Industries: Highlight the role of arts, media, and fashion in fostering employment, social and economic change, promoting sustainability, and preserving cultural heritage. When discussing these subthemes, the Summit will focus on three fresh perspectives on innovation: Underserved populations , Fragility , Conflict, and Violence (FCV), and Partnerships. By spotlighting these areas, the event aims at amplifying diverse voices, fostering innovation for sustainable development, and building collaborative networks to scale impact globally. Join us in celebrating the creativity, technology, and entrepreneurial spirit of young leaders as they redefine possibilities, impulse new job opportunities, and lead the charge for a more inclusive and resilient world. Why is it relevant? 85% of the world’s youth live in low- and middle-income countries , with 600 million in fragile or conflict-affected settings. Nearly 800 million young people in developing nations risk being excluded from the job market over the next decade, particularly those from marginalized groups facing barriers due to gender, ethnicity, disability, and other social identities. Despite these challenges, young people are driving innovation, which is a key factor to create new job opportunities, promote inclusion, and tackle climate change . Youth-led initiatives are already making an impact, such as using real-time data to improve agricultural resilience, launching digital platforms for financial inclusion, and navigating their way into creative industries. These innovations offer new business models and industries, helping to address the rising youth unemployment crisis and solve some development challenges. The 2025 Summit will focus on amplifying these efforts, particularly in key sectors like education, healthcare, and green technologies. It will highlight how innovation can provide job opportunities and empower marginalized populations, in line with the World Bank Group’s priorities . The Summit aims to foster global partnerships among youth, governments, businesses, and civil society to scale up youth-led solutions, contributing to a more inclusive and sustainable future for young people worldwide. Day 1 – Monday, May 19, 2025 TIME DAY 1 SESSION 7:00-7:55 Breakfast and registration 7:55-8:30 Opening of the 2025 Youth Summit Welcoming Video by Ajay Banga , World Bank Group Presiden Opening remarks by Raaga Akkineni , 2025 Youth Summit Manager Keynotes speech and Q&A, Axel van Trotsenburg , World Bank Senior Managing Director 8:30-9:25 Civil Society Organization Roundtable - From Awareness to Action: Empowering Young Voices & Partnerships in Development 9:25-10:20 Plenary - Data-Driven & Digital Solutions for Development: Youth Innovating for Peace and Resilience 10:20-10:40 Break 10:40-11:00 Interactive session 11:00-11:05 Keynotes Video Anna Bjerde , World Bank Managing Director of Operations 11:05-12:00 Plenary - Seeds of Change: Youth-Led Solutions for Resilient Agriculture & Food Security 12:10-13:30 Networking Lunch 13:30-14:00 Innovation Lab Session 1 - Presentation of the cases prompts 14:00-16:00 Innovation Lab Session 2 - Work in teams 16:00-16:10 Break 16:10-18:00 Innovation Lab Session 3 - Work in teams 18:00-20:15 Partners Expo - Happy Hour Day 2 – Tuesday, May 20, 2025 TIME DAY 2 SESSION 7:00-7:50 Breakfast and registration 7:50-7:55 Opening Ceremony 7:55-8:25 Morning Buzz Lightning Talks: Shared testimonies and inspiring words from Delegates 8:25-8:35 Artistic Performance 8:35 - 9:20 Plenary - Creative Industries as a Driver of Economic Resilience: Youth Innovation in Arts, Media, and Fashion 9:20 - 9:50 Fireside Chat and Q&A: Exploring digital currencies opportunities and challenges, with the World Bank Treasury 9:50 - 10:10 Break 10:10-11:40 Innovation Lab Session 4 - Presentation of the cases solutions in break out rooms in front of Juries 11:40 - 13:10 Live Presentations by 6 Pitch Competition Finalists and Q&A 13:10-14:30 Networking Lunch 14:30-15:50 Innovation Lab Session 5 - Presentation of the 6 finalists cases solutions in front of delegates 15:50-17:00 Career Development Sessions in break out rooms 17:00-17:30 Networking café – Career development sessions follow-up 17:30-18:00 Pitch Competition and Innovation Lab Awards Ceremony 18:00-18:05 Closing Remarks 18:05-18:15 Group photo of all in-person Youth Summit Delegates 20:00-22:00 Summit Soirée Celebrate unity through diversity at our Summit Soirée, an exclusive gala for youth delegates. Dress to impress – local or traditional attire from your home country is encouraged! The WBG Youth Summit is the World Bank Group’s premier event for young leaders worldwide. As a delegate , you will have the opportunity to engage with global development leaders, participate in high-level discussions, and contribute to shaping solutions to pressing global challenges. Delegates are emerging changemakers—students, young professionals, and entrepreneurs—who are passionate about development issues and eager to collaborate with like-minded peers. APPLY HERE NOW! Applications will be open until April 15, 2025. Components of the Summit Delegates will actively participate in various components of the WBG Youth Summit, which include: Keynote Addresses and Panel Discussions: Engage with world-renowned speakers, policymakers, and development experts on global challenges and innovative solutions. Innovation Lab (formerly Case Challenge): Put on your innovation hats and take part in hands-on, interactive workshops to build innovative solutions for real World Bank Group Projects (for in-person delegates only). Interactive Q&A and Polling: Engage with speakers and panelists through live Q&A sessions and polls. Networking Opportunities: Connect with professionals, World Bank Group representatives, private-sector partners and fellow young leaders from around the world. Career Development Session: Get an opportunity to learn about different internships and programs that can prove to be your entryway into a rewarding career. Past presenters include colleagues from WBG, WB Treasury, IMF, UN, IDB, etc. Choose a Pitch Competition winner: Witness the Pitch Competition final where the top 6 finalists showcase their groundbreaking youth-led initiatives and projects in a shark-tank like competition. Vote for your favorite solution or idea to decide on the Audience Choice Award. Perks of Being a Delegate Be part of a prestigious global platform for youth-driven impact and innovation. Gain insights from industry leaders, policymakers, and development professionals. Expand your global network with like-minded individuals and experts. Receive an official certificate of participation from the World Bank Group Youth Summit upon completion. Enhance your leadership, critical thinking, and problem-solving skills in a dynamic and engaging environment. By becoming a delegate, you will not only contribute to meaningful discussions but also gain valuable knowledge and connections to further your impact in the development space. Apply now to be part of this transformative experience! Welcome to the World Bank Group Youth Summit 2025 Pitch Competition , an exciting opportunity for young change-makers to showcase their innovative solutions addressing global challenges. Open to individuals aged 18-35 worldwide, this competition provides a dynamic platform for presenting your ideas to an international audience and gaining momentum for your innovations. The Pitch Competition, a flagship event of the WBG Youth Summit, showcases the transformative power of youth-driven solutions in shaping a sustainable and inclusive future for all. It provides a global stage for young entrepreneurs, change-makers, and innovators to present their unique ideas and solutions to today’s most pressing development challenges. We encourage submissions from diverse backgrounds and focus areas with a special interest in addressing the following themes: Theme: New Horizons: Youth-Led Innovation for a Livable Planet Pillar 1: Data Driven Transformation Pillar 2: Climate Action & Resilience Pillar 3: Empowering Change through Creative Industries More information about the themes can be found under the "THEME" Tab. We invite you to submit your groundbreaking ideas that have the power to make a real difference in the world. This global competition seeks to reward the most innovative projects, so get ready to shape the future with your solutions. Calendar of Events Registration opens on December 18th, 2024 Submit your proposal (Deadline: February 2nd, 2025, 11:59 pm EST) Applicants and pitch decks will be evaluated by an expert committee. Shortlisted individuals/teams will be announced by early April and will proceed to the next stage. Applications can be submitted in Arabic, English, French or Spanish, and you can use the pitch deck template (insert link to template) for guidance. For more information, you can stream the Pitch Competition Launch/info session HERE . Pitch your idea at the Youth Summit (May 19th – 20th, 2025) Finalists will join the 2024 World Bank Group Youth Summit hosted at the World Bank Headquarters in Washington, D.C. Travel expenses, including lodging and a nominal stipend for up to three nights, will be covered for one representative per team. The representative is required to obtain a valid U.S. visa for their travel. Other team members can participate in the event through the virtual platform. Eligibility All team members are between 18 - 35 years old, on the date of the application deadline. Each team member should be from one of the World Bank Group member countries. The solution should address at least one of the three thematic pillars (Data Driven Transformation, Climate Action & Resilience, Empowering Change through Creative Industries). Cross-thematic and scalable solutions across more than one pillar are also accepted for consideration. Applications must be received before February 2nd, 2025, 11:59 pm EST. Still have questions? Explore our FAQ page: bit.ly/YS-FAQ or reach out to us at youthsummit@worldbank.org with the subject - PITCH COMPETITION. The Youth Summit’s Innovation Lab, formerly known as the Case Challenge, provides in-person delegates of the Summit a unique opportunity to collaborate on actual World Bank Group case projects. Once again, this year, the World Bank Group (WBG) Youth Summit will feature an action-based learning component through the Innovation Lab on the theme " New Horizons: Youth-Led Innovation for a Livable Planet ". The Innovation Lab, formerly known as the Case Challenge, is an integral part of the WBG Youth Summit taking place on May 19-20, 2025. The collaborative element of the Innovation Lab is an essential part of the 2025 WBG Youth Summit on the promotion of innovative and efficient solutions contributing to global development, with a vision of fostering an engaging environment between all the in-person delegates, the WBG staff and the facilitators. During the 2025 Summit, all in-person delegates will engage in the Innovation Lab designed to provide hands-on experience. This team-based, simulated scenario will allow participants to actively identify pivotal challenges and opportunities in fostering innovative solutions to pressing global challenges. These facilitated sessions will provide participants the experience to work with their peers to develop innovative solutions to real WBG case projects. The Innovation Lab will provide a unique platform to demonstrate their knowledge, problem-solving skills, and innovative ideas while co-creating and networking with peers as well as the experts in the field. Participants are randomly divided into groups to form case teams. Teams are tasked with devising an innovative solution to the given case prompt within allotted time and presenting their solutions to a panel comprised of WBG senior leads and external partners. With an eclectic array of experiences and skills within every group, individuals will enhance their own communication and teamwork skills. Read through the FAQ below to get more information. FAQ 1. How does WBG define Innovation? Innovation is finding and applying new approaches to address existing problems or serve unmet needs. From a development perspective, an innovation is a new solution with the transformative ability to accelerate impact. Innovation can be fueled by science and technology, can entail improved ways of working with new and diverse partners, or can involve new social and business models or policy, creative financing mechanisms, or path-breaking improvements in delivering essential services and products. Innovation has been and will be pivotal for reaching sustained, scalable solutions to the world’s complex problems. 2. What is the “New Horizons: Youth-Led Innovation for a Livable Planet” Innovation Lab? The Innovation Lab is a 2-day case challenge for all the in-person participants of the Youth Summit, where teams propose innovative solutions to cases based on real World Bank Group projects. The Innovation Lab provides delegates with a unique opportunity to craft innovative solutions aimed at addressing contemporary challenges encountered by regional communities. These solutions not only address local issues but also have the potential to yield global impact upon implementation. During the Innovation Lab, the teams will focus on one of the three salient sub-themes: (i) climate action; (ii) digital transformation; and (iii) creative industries. Under these themes, the following perspectives will be taken into consideration: underserved populations, youth in Fragility, Conflict, and Violence (FCV) areas, and the potential for partnerships to create change. 3. What is the difference between the Innovation Lab and the Youth Summit Pitch Competition? The Innovation Lab is a case challenge for all the in-person participants of the Youth Summit, where teams propose innovative solutions to cases based on real World Bank Group projects. It is a foundational action-based learning component of the Youth Summit, seamlessly integrated into the two-day event. The Pitch Competition is an annual competition that runs concurrent with the Youth Summit and culminates during the two-day event. Ahead of the Summit, young professionals from all over the world are invited to propose action-oriented business-level or policy-level solutions that illustrate how their innovations can solve/have impact on pressing development challenges while addressing challenges relating to youth in FCV-affected areas, underserved populations and the potential of partnerships. A jury of experts will pre-select the most compelling proposals based on three pillars and invite their authors (individuals or teams) to pitch them during the live competition. Winners will be designated by votes from the jury and members of the audience. For more information on the WBG Youth Summit Competition, please consult the Pitch Competition section of our website . 4. When and where is the Innovation Lab going to be held? The Innovation Lab is fully integrated into the two days of the WBG Youth Summit so that participants can be inspired by the discussions they attend during the panel sessions on innovative solutions for a livable planet and apply their learnings to the Innovation Lab. This year’s Innovation Lab section will be 100% in-person at the WBG HQ in Washington D.C. 5. What kind of work is done on the cases? The proposed cases are rooted in actual WBG projects, strategically chosen to prompt delegates to delve deeply into the core development issues of the Youth Summit subthemes. Through this process, they will tailor solutions to their unique contexts. Delegates will hone their research, teamwork, consulting and presentation skills by engaging in problem-solving exercises modelled after real-world scenarios. Facilitators and frameworks will provide guidance throughout, aiding delegates in effectively addressing the challenges presented. 6. Who will take part in the Innovation Lab? All in-person delegates selected to attend the 2025 World Bank Group Summit in Washington DC at the WBG headquarters will be required to participate in the Innovation Lab. The in-person delegates will be randomly split into groups of 5-6 people and will work in their assigned teams to solve the case challenge based on the subthemes of the Summit. 7. Do participants have to apply individually or as part of a team? By applying to attend the 2025 edition in person, participants are automatically required to take part in the Innovation Lab. All teams are formed during the actual event, to test the effectiveness of the delegates’ communication and teamwork skills when teamed up with people they have not known previously. 8. How will the delegates participate in the Innovation Lab? All delegates will be randomly divided into groups to form the case teams. Accepted delegates will be provided with detailed instructions about what to expect during the Innovation Lab and how to prepare for it prior to the Summit. It will be the delegates’ responsibility to go through the material shared before arrival. The team allocation for the delegates will be provided on arrival during Summit registration. The case details for the Innovation Lab will be provided during an allocated session of the Summit. On day one of the Summit, the delegate teams will have 2 timed sessions allocated for the Innovation Lab. These facilitated sessions will allow participants the opportunity to work with their peers to develop their innovative solutions to real WBG case projects. The teams will submit their solutions at the end day one, and details for the final submission will be provided during the Summit. On day two, all delegate teams will present their solutions to a jury of subject-matter experts in the morning for the first round of qualifications. Later in the day, the shortlisted teams will present their case solutions to a jury comprised of WBG senior leaders and external partners for the final round of presentations. 9. Is any previous case experience required? This is meant to be a fun learning experience, providing delegates the opportunity to showcase their innovative and creative ideas, so no previous experience is required. We may assign delegates with prior experience in a specific subtheme to its corresponding case. 10. Is there a participation fee? No. 11. Who designs/gives the case? The cases are provided by the WBG Youth Summit organizers and have been designed with the help of a group of young and experienced World Bank Group volunteers. 12. Who is facilitating the Innovation Lab? Facilitators are young, skilled professionals who possess substantial expertise in climate action, digital transformation, and creative industries. Their role is to lead participants through each stage of the Innovation Lab, fostering engaging discussions, ensuring seamless interaction, and addressing any queries that may arise, thus enhancing the overall experience. 13. How is the winning team of the Innovation Lab determined? On the event's second day, all delegate teams will present their solutions, based on the instructions which will be provided during the Summit, to a jury of subject experts in the morning for the first round of qualifications. This jury will shortlist teams judged on their innovative solutions and the presentation of those solutions. Later in the day, the shortlisted teams will present their innovative solutions to the WBG cases to a jury comprised of WBG senior leaders and external partners. This panel of jury members will select the winning team/s. 14. What do participants get out of this? Participants will have the opportunity to get hands-on experience of the work conducted at the WBG by working on cases based on real WBG projects. Participants will have the opportunity to experience the challenges of tackling a development case under the mentorship of professionals in this area. Participants will have the opportunity to apply knowledge gained during the plenary sessions and apply it directly, to learn more interactively on the global impact of localized solutions to development challenges across communities and regions. Participants will have the opportunity to network with professionals and team members and to learn more about opportunities for future collaboration. Following deliberations of the panel of experts, the winning team/s will receive a prize (prizes to be confirmed). This year's Youth Summit Steering Committee members are: Manager Raaga Akkineni Deputy Managers Marco Fayet Alice ​Vandenberghe Communications Co-Leads Sofio Tsintsadze​ Chance Markeiz Barnett Content Co-Leads Laure Mouttapa​ Cynthia Mene Innovation Lab Co-Leads Piyusha Khot Sargun Kaur Design Lead Vic Callahan Logistics Lead Rebecca Mangani Partnerships Lead Shwetha Eapen Pitch Competition Co-Leads Alla Ivanov Muhammad Nabeel Secretariat Apurva Goyal​ Samia Bouba Technology Lead Ani Popiashvili Treasury Shrey Addagatla Youth Engagement Co-Leads Ahmed Aboushady​ Adhwaa Bandar O Alsaleh​ Join the conversation on social media using #WBGYouthSummit WBG Youth Summit 2024 Website WBG Youth Summit 2023 Website WBG Youth Summit 2023 Blogpost Join our Facebook Group Join our LinkedIn Group Contact us Pitch Competition Information Session Recording Event Details Data: 19 - 20 maio 2025 ET Location: Hybrid (Online and Washington DC) Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×