Promoting Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises' financial access to boost growth and jobs in Ecuador What We Do Projects & Operations Results Briefs November 12, 2025 Promoting Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises' financial access to boost growth and jobs in Ecuador Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Darwin Pineda (Bananas producer): "Banco de Machala has been supporting us in a very harmonious, very fast, and efficient way. It is extremely important that the government has changed the CFN credit policy, so that they are not first-tier but second-tier loans, from which we benefited, and it was more efficient and faster." Development Challenge Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) account for 99 percent of firms and about 60 percent of formal employment (1.8 million employees) in Ecuador. MSMEs have faced persistent financing gaps and repeated shocks, such as political turmoil and energy crisis, which have strained credit provision. The financial system in Ecuador has limited financial instruments for MSMEs within broader context of financial repression, where interest-rate caps preclude efficient capital allocation necessary for economic growth. Historically, lending programs that lacked robust design and oversight led to ineffectiveness and vulnerability of development banks. Results The project is in its fifth year of implementation and two more years until its completion. The project has already shown significant progress: The project provided financial access to 24,522 MSMEs (315 percent of the target), enhancing their growth in terms of employment, sales, and assets. An impact evaluation revealed that the project created an average of 1.5 new jobs per beneficiary firm. The project significantly impacted firms without previous access to credit: these firms doubled their sales and created 2.5 jobs on average. Reduced the gender gap, similar growth in jobs and sales occurred both on female- and male-led firms. Notably, 59 percent of beneficiary firms are women-led or women-owned. CFN issued 26,169 loans to 24,522 MSMEs. A substantial increase from the 3,000 firms that received credit when the project started in 2020. CFN was awarded a AAA- credit rating by the top bank rating agency, placing it at the same level of the largest commercial banks in Ecuador. CFN's mandate shifted to focus solely on second-tier operations, enabling a change in its statutes and staffing structure. Modernization of regulations on partial credit guarantees has enabled large banks to join the scheme, underscoring the drive for private capital mobilization to the productive sector. The impact of the project on employment Source: Bruhn et al. ( 2025 ). Note: Employment is expressed in logarithmic form. The y-axis displays the average treatment effect of the program on employment among beneficiary firms. The x-axis denotes the years before the project (-3, -2, -1), the year when the project started (0), and the years following the project (1, 2). WBG Approach This project supported the institutional strengthening and financial turnaround of the National Finance Corporation (CFN) -- a development bank in Ecuador-- which is now a key driver of MSME credit provision and job creation. Institutional and regulatory changes are pivotal to the sustainability and replicability of results. The project created a second-tier credit line for MSMEs while supporting CFN in the transition to a fully second-tier lender. Under the project, CFN has completed an Asset Quality Review and has suspended all its first-tier lending operations. CFN's statute has been amended by Executive Decree to confirm the development bank's status as second-tier lender. The change in operations is reflected in a balance sheet that continues to consolidate with sustainable second-tier intermediation and increasing private capital mobilization. Contribution to WBG Targets and Jobs Gender Equality target: the project benefited 14,410 women-led/owned firms (59% of all beneficiaries). Thanks to the project, these firms grew in terms of sales, assets and employees. Jobs agenda: The project created on average 1.5 new jobs for each beneficiary and 2.5 new jobs among firms that had no previous access to finance. Similar impact for female and male led firms. The project benefited 24,522 MSMEs. 24,522 MSMEs (315% of the target) were provided with financial access by the project, which enhanced their growth in terms of employment, sales, and assets. Roberto Campoverde (Arsenia Restaurant): "I think the role of CFN is important because it seeks partners to help entrepreneurs fulfill their dreams." Lessons Learned This level of institutional transformation would not have been possible without the strong ownership from the Ecuadorian authorities. Strong trust between the Ecuadorian authorities and the Bank enabled significant reforms to address deep underline issues that set the stage for the current success. Notably, following the Asset Quality Review, loan loss provisions increased to US$651 million and CFN reported a US$240 million loss in its 2021 income statement. Next Steps Leverage the second-tier lending capacity developed by CFN to ease financial repression in additional credit constrained sectors. Increase the number of MSMEs that receive a partial credit guarantee. Additional Information World Bank Let's Talk Development Blog: Unlocking SME growth: Key lessons from Ecuador's loan program CFN received the ALIDE international award "Support to Women's Entrepreneurship" for boosting financing of women-led firms, mentioning the World Bank's contribution Bankwatch Ratings SA report World Bank - CFN meeting at the CFN Office in Quito, Ecuador. RELATED World Bank Group in Ecuador This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×