Infographic: Promoting Animal Health in Mongolia --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News Infographic Infographic: Promoting Animal Health in Mongolia May 31, 2017 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Under the Livestock and Agricultural Marketing Project the government is improving rural livelihoods and food security through targeted investments to boost productivity, market access, and diversification in livestock-based production systems. Five aimags have received equipment such as refrigerators (to make sure drugs and vaccines are delivered safely to herders), motorcycles for veterinarians, as well as various veterinary diagnostic and analysis equipment to promote animal health. Mongolia East Asia Pacific Poverty RELATED WORLD BANK Feature Story: Better Animal Health Care Brings Welcome Changes to Herder Households in Mongolia Mongolia Livestock and Agricultural Marketing Project Global Agriculture and Food Security Program (GAFSP) --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.