Infographic: Shared Prosperity in Emerging Europe and Central Asia --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Infographic: Shared Prosperity in Emerging Europe and Central Asia April 10, 2014 This page in: English Русский Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> The first decade of the new millennium saw sustained growth of the incomes of the bottom 40% in Emerging Europe and Central Asia, above average GDP growth. In some countries, however, poorer people have experienced contraction in their incomes, while in others they enjoyed yearly rates above 7%. Going forward, sustained growth of the bottom 40 percent will require structural policies that facilitate access to assets and reconcile equity and growth for all. Read more Open a larger image RELATED WORLD BANK Report : Shared Prosperity - Paving the Way in Europe and Central Asia Feature Story : Shared Prosperity: Two Stories from Emerging Europe and Central Asia Press Release : Sustained income growth of bottom 40 percent crucial to boosting shared prosperity in Emerging Europe and Central Asia MULTIMEDIA Video VIDEO Hans Timmer on Shared Prosperity in Europe and Central Asia Europe and Central Asia Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.