Pay Now or Pay Later? Making Financial Sense of Disasters --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News 27 FEATURE STORY Pay Now or Pay Later? Making Financial Sense of Disasters September 27, 2016 This page in: English Français Español Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> A woman helps clean up after the 2015 earthquakes in Nepal. Photo: Samir Jung Thapa/Asian Development Bank How natural disasters are paid for makes a big difference to the total economic cost. Ministries of finance receive countless financial protection proposals from reinsurers and banks, but often lack the technical expertise and quantitative tools to evaluate their suitability. Recent research by the World Bank Group has made this a little easier. An integrated framework has been developed and tested for assessing potential financial protection strategies, requiring only basic technical capacity and readily-available data. Its real innovation is its use of actuarial, economic, and financial theory to condense some of the key benefits and weaknesses of each financial instrument into simple numbers. This allows instruments and strategies to be directly compared and can guide governments and their development partners in choosing an appropriate low-cost approach for financial protection against disaster. For instance, different governments face different risks, different economic and fiscal environments, and different institutional capacities to manage public finance. And, instruments can differ in cost, speed, accuracy, and flexibility. When structuring a disaster risk financing strategy, these elements all matter. Early comparative financial analysis and planning, the research finds, can save substantial money. Application of the framework to one drought-prone African country suggested that financing disaster-response costs through a combination of budget reallocation, reserves, and insurance could reduce the cost of response by a quarter, as compared to waiting for humanitarian aid to arrive. And analysis in a small island state exposed to tropical cyclones shows insurance to be more than twice as cost-effective as emergency budget reallocations. This research illustrates how the tradeoffs and uncertainties of financial instruments can be evaluated and used to inform decision making. The Disaster Risk Financing and Insurance Program , a partnership of the World Bank and the Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery , is working with over 60 countries around the world to develop, implement, and learn from ex-ante financial protection solutions against disasters. And, these solutions work. Financial and Budgetary Instruments Goal Ex ante instrument (arranged before a disaster) Ex post instrument (arranged after a disaster) Risk retention (changing how or when one pays) Contingency fund or budget allocation Line of contingent credit Budget reallocation Tax increase Post-disaster credit Risk transfer (removing risk from the balance sheet) Traditional insurance or reinsurance Indexed insurance, reinsurance, or derivatives Capital market instruments Discretionary post-disaster relief Source : Clarke and Derco n (2016) Climate Change Disaster Risk Management Financial Inclusion Urban Development RELATED WORLD BANK Papers Evaluating Sovereign Disaster Risk Finance Strategies: A Framework Evaluating Sovereign Disaster Risk Finance Strategies: Guidance and Case Studies ---------- Disaster Risk Financing and Insurance Program EXTERNAL Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.