Event | TICAD9 Thematic Event “HICKARE Africa: Harnessing Innovation, Co-creation, and Knowledge for Accessible and Resilient Energy for Africa” Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events TICAD9 Thematic Event “HICKARE Africa: Harnessing Innovation, Co-creation, and Knowledge for Accessible and Resilient Energy for Africa” Share *As the event has already reached full capacity, general participation is available online only. Organized by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) Co-organized by World Bank, African Development Bank Overview Background In Africa, the population without electricity has been as large as approximately 600 million, which is about 85% of the world's unelectrified population. As the African region has been rapidly growing in terms of population and economy, improvement of access to clean energy and supplying stable energy are critical issues to be addressed on the continent. However, vast areas, low population density, and disparity in the availability of energy between countries require innovative approaches to develop energy for the continent's growth. In this connection, the utilization of mini/off-grid systems, international power exchange within the region, and realization of the African Power Pool concept are important issues to address. Key Questions What are the key challenges in addressing energy poverty in Africa through clean energy, using both on-grid and off-grid approaches? What shall stakeholders collaborate on in order to effectively address the aforementioned challenges? How shall energy in Africa developed and utilized to enhance the growth of the continent? Key Words Renewable Energy, Clean Energy, Stabilization, On-grid, Interconnection, African Power Pool, AFSEM, SAPP, WAPP, EAPP, CAPP, Mission 300, electrification, Off-grid, Mini-grid, Productive Use of Energy, Efficient Use of Energy, Energy Conservation, Energy Saving, multi-sectoral approach, private investment, etc. Objective To consider the effective approach and potential area of cooperation with private sector in realization of the African Power Pool or addressing energy access issue including mini/off grid solutions, through the panel discussion among stakeholders. Provide key insights to the audience regarding challenges, and way forward toward better approach for improvement of energy access in Africa with carbon neutral approach and/or realization of the African Power Pool. Speaker from World Bank Group: Hiroshi Matano, Executive Vice President, MIGA ＊For details and registration for online participation, please see JICA’s webpage . Event Details Date/Time 4:00pm-6:00pm, Tuesday, August 19, 2025 (Japan Standard Time) Venue: InterContinental Grand Yokohama Hotel Access Format Hybrid (In-person participation and online participation) *As the event has already reached full capacity, general participation is available online only. For details and registration Please see JICA’s webpage: HICKARE Africa: Harnessing Innovation, Co-creation, and Knowledge for Accessible and Resilient Energy for Africa Contact Koichi Omori, World Bank Tokyo Office komori@worldbankgroup.org Related The Ninth Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD 9) official site World Bank Africa Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×