Index-Insurance: Protecting Women Farmers Against Weather Risk --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Index-Insurance: Protecting Women Farmers Against Weather Risk March 6, 2015 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> If women farmers worldwide had the same access to resources as their male counterparts, their yields could increase by up to 30%, which could result in up to 150 million fewer people going hungry. Insuring crops against unforeseen weather events is a standard practice among farmers in rich countries. But traditional agriculture insurance and disaster insurance are either unavailable or very expensive in many developing countries, leaving small farmers particularly vulnerable to vagaries of nature. Without insurance, a severe drought, a devastating earthquake or another extreme weather disaster can wipe out small farmers. Such uncertainties make them more risk averse and less likely to invest in inputs to grow and expand their farms. This particularly affects women farmers, whose farms already tend to produce less than men’s. In Sub-Saharan Africa, women farmers produce up to a quarter less than their male counterparts, even though they make up a large share of the region’s farmers. Women farmers’ lack of access to credit and other financial tools to help make their farms more productive is one of the key reasons why their output lags behind men’s. If women farmers worldwide had the same access to resources as their male counterparts, their yields could increase by up to 30 percent, which could result in up to 150 million fewer people going hungry, according to the Food and Agricultural Organization’s estimates. Index-insurance, an innovative approach to insuring small farms against weather events, is a step in that direction as it helps stabilize farmers’ income allowing them to continue farming regardless of disaster and weather uncertainties. Index-insurance is different from traditional insurance. It pays out benefits on the basis of a predetermined index for loss of assets and investments, primarily working capital, resulting from weather and catastrophic events, without requiring the services of insurance claims assessors. A statistical index is developed before the start of the insurance period to measure deviations from normal for such parameters as rainfall, temperature, seismic activity, wind speed, crop yield or livestock mortality rates. The Global Index Insurance Facility (GIIF) , managed by the World Bank Group, has been leading and supporting index-insurance programs since 2009. Recent examples from Rwanda and Kenya show how to make index-insurance available and affordable in developing countries, particularly for women farmers. The insurance penetration in Rwanda is less than 1 percent, low even when compared to other developing countries. Landholding is fragmented, making access to credit and risk management tools difficult for most farmers. Since 2012 GIIF, through its partners MicroEnsure and Kilimo Salama (now ACRE) , has been aggregating farmers into groups and enrolling them into insurance programs, making this approach commercially feasible for the insurer while allowing women farmers to come together and seek coverage for weather-related risks. This has provided women with more stable incomes and has empowered them to better provide for their families. A similar index-insurance arrangement in Kenya showed its value during recent droughts. A payout by the ACRE program, initiated by GIIF and supported by Swiss Re, kept thousands of women farmers in business, providing funds to buy seeds and fertilizers for the next growing season. GIIF is implementing similar programs across Sub-Saharan Africa, Asia and the Pacific, Latin America and the Caribbean through partnerships with innovative implementers such as PlaNet Guarantee, CARD Pioneer, MicoEnsure, Sanasa and MiCRO and insurers/reinsurers, such as Swiss Re and AXA. In Haiti, Fonkoze , a microfinance institution and a GIIF implementing partner, is offering affordable weather index-insurance to some 70,000 clients, mostly rural women working in local markets who provide their communities with essential goods and services. Extending innovative and affordable index-insurance solutions to women farmers increases their access to financial tools allowing them to be less risk averse in managing and growing their farms. Closing the gender gap and making smallholder farmers in developing countries sustainable is important as agriculture creates jobs throughout the farm-to-table food chain. It is also critical to fighting hunger, tackling malnutrition and boosting food security for the world’s population that is expected to reach 9 billion by 2050. RELATED WORLD BANK Story: Leveling the Field: Improving Opportunities for Women Farmers in Africa For Up to 800 Million Rural Poor, a Strong World Bank Commitment to Agriculture Blog: Leveling the field is not just the right thing to do. It’s the smart thing to do. EXTERNAL Kenya, Rwanda: ACRE/Syngenta Foundation Rwanda: MicroEnsure Haiti: Micro/Fonkoze Gender Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.