The ‘Bullet’ Pump: Modernizing Flood Management in Guyana Who We Are News FEATURE STORY May 30, 2025 The ‘Bullet’ Pump: Modernizing Flood Management in Guyana Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina This modern infrastructure serves not only Liliendaal but also reduces flooding for Georgetown and nearby communities, including Turkeyen, Cummings Lodge, and as far as South Ruimveldt, due to the interconnected canals and drainage system. Residents don’t only call the pump station “Bullet’; they also call it a ‘blessing.’ World Bank In Guyana’s capital Georgetown, a new US$6 million pump station at Liliendaal is the latest enhancement to the country's coastal infrastructure. The Ministry of Agriculture constructed the pump station as one of many interventions under the Guyana Flood Risk Management Project , a World Bank-funded initiative led by the Government of Guyana. This project was a decade-long partnership aimed at building resilience to natural disasters and reducing flooding in both urban and rural areas of Guyana's coastal plain. It supported the upgrading, replacement, and construction of drainage and irrigation structures. This supports Guyana's efforts to build resilience and sustainability, contributing to the country’s Low Carbon Development Strategy 2030. Due to its vulnerability disasters, Guyana has prioritized improving drainage systems and flood management in its Climate Resilience Strategy and Adaptation Plan. The ‘Bullet’ Pump station, located just meters away from the Atlantic Ocean, features two high-capacity pumps, each able to remove 4.3 cubic meters of water (or 43 full bathubs) per second from nearby communities. Locals nicknamed the pump "Bullet" for its speed. “We name the new pump ‘Bullet’,” proudly shared Basil Singh, a 65-year-old tailor and lifelong resident. “The canals would have reasonable water, and in no time, ‘Bullet’ carries away the water quickly.” He vividly recalls the distressing scenes of knee-deep, stagnant floodwater that plagued the village streets for many years: “flooding was a problem in the community before they installed the new pumps—it was terrible,” Singh recounts, especially recalling the devastating 2005 floods. The old pump station could not drain the area because heavy rains would cause water levels to rise too quickly. This modern infrastructure serves not only Liliendaal but also reduces flooding for Georgetown and nearby communities, including Turkeyen, Cummings Lodge, and as far as South Ruimveldt, due to the interconnected canals and drainage system. Residents don’t only call the pump station “Bullet’; they also call it a ‘blessing.’ The Old Georgetown Mayor & City Council, Liliendaal Pump Station, located on the Rupert Craig Highway, East Coast of Demerara. "Investing in infrastructure like the Liliendaal pump station reflects Guyana’s commitment to creating opportunities that directly benefit its people,” said Diletta Doretti, World Bank Group Representative for Guyana. “Interventions like these, supported through our partnership with the Government of Guyana, are central to our mission of building resilient communities and improving lives. Together, we’re ensuring that development reaches the individuals and families who need it most." Residents like Mr. Singh recognize the impact of Guyana’s collaboration with development partners. "I really thank the government with the World Bank for doing such a gesture—this will make the whole of Georgetown safer—‘Bullet’ will take the water and put it in the Atlantic Ocean." He was also amazed at the advanced technology used during construction, particularly the underground pipes tunneled without disrupting local traffic on one of Georgetown's busiest highways. “We still ask ourselves what kind of technology was that—it surprised us all,” he says. Mr. Singh, a longtime resident of Georgetown, reflects on the changes brought by the major infrastructure project supported by the government and the World Bank. “We still ask ourselves what kind of technology was that—it surprised us all,” he says. The pump station, however, is not a ‘Silver Bullet,’ as the residents recognize the importance of also keeping the waterways leading to the pump station clean. Patricia, who is a single parent notes, “when people throw garbage in the canal and it isn’t cleaned, the water rises faster because it can’t flow properly,” underscoring the importance of community efforts in maintaining the drainage systems. The ‘Bullet’ has fired a sense of shared responsibility among villagers, local authorities, and the national government. For Liliendaal residents, the “Bullet” symbolizes hope and resilience. Phagwandai, who has lived in the village for 35 years, expresses relief at the newfound safety the pump station provides. “I feel happy. Even if the rain sets up and the canal gets full, when the pump is turned on, everything’s gone. We’re not going to see floods anymore.” As the community enjoys the benefits of modern flood management, the “Bullet’ serves as a reminder of the power of collaboration and innovation. With clean canals, engaged citizens, and cutting-edge infrastructure, Liliendaal Village and Georgetown are on a path to a safer future—one powerful pump cycle at a time. Watch the video Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×