Empowering Women by Balancing the Law Understanding Poverty Topics BRIEF Empowering Women by Balancing the Law Email Print Tweet Share Share LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> "Gender equality is not an abstract concept that demands innovative rethinking—it is and must be a fundamental right by which societies are built and economies are made to thrive." Sandie Okoro Former World Bank Senior Vice President and Group General Counsel (2019) The Challenge Billions of women and girls worldwide face systemic societal barriers due to the global abundance and persistence of outdated and discriminatory laws. Development outcomes in global economies depend crucially on accelerated action to enact and promote the enforcement of gender equality legislation. The Offer Empowering Women by Balancing the Law (EWBL) supports interested countries in assessing legal landscapes and in turn design and implementing reforms to discriminatory laws and improving enforcement of existing legislation. Through a gender-inclusive lens and a bolstered vision for equality, EWBL and interested countries partner to build resilient economies and greater fulfillment of international commitments. The Process Through a 3-step support approach , EWBL can help countries accelerate meaningful change. Analysis & Consultation Capacity Building & Outreach Evaluation & Lessons Learned ____________________________ EWBL History EWBL was launched by the Legal Vice Presidency of the World Bank under the supervision of former World Bank Senior Vice President and Group General Counsel, Sandie Okoro. The importance of this project was highlighted and revitalized throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, which exacerbated existing gender-based inequalities and brought about a worrisome reversal of decades worth of gains in the economy, jobs, and voice and agency. EWBL is managed by a task force from the World Bank’s Legal Vice Presidency. It draws on the expertise and experience of our attorneys worldwide to cater to countries’ needs for real solutions that put an end to imbalanced laws that limit women and girls’ opportunities. MULTIMEDIA click Video message from Sandie Okoro, former World Bank Senior Vice President and Group General Counsel. Our Partners EWBL’s unique platform invites partners to contribute to the World Bank’s global aid agenda. By leveraging the reach and capabilities of international partners in the public and private sectors, as well as connected initiatives within the World Bank, EWBL offers reliable support for partner countries’ efforts to promote legal equality. External partners include law firms, NGOs, think-tanks, corporations, foundations, international organizations, and other entities that have synergy with EWBL's goals. Relationships can take the form of pro bono work on EWBL matters, collaboration sessions connected with EWBL projects, forums for EWBL's goals and work to gain publicity, and financial support. Get Involved Please complete the following form . RELATED May 3, 2023 - Law and Gender: The Interplay Between the Private Sector and the Judiciary in Advancing Women's Economic Participation Read more Arrow Contact Us Sign up for updates Email: balancingthelaw@worldbank.org Guiding Principles Download the Brochure RELATED Task Force Members Francesca Daverio, Head of Office, Legal Vice Presidency Una Saerun Johannsdottir, Project Manager, EWBL Pedro Schilling De Carvalho, Consultant Legal Compendia The Legal Compendia provide a survey of the key international, regional and national legal instruments across a range to gender themes. Child Marriage (2nd Edition) Domestic Violence (1st Edition) Sexual Harassment in the Workplace (1st Edition) FGM/C (7th Edition) Legal Training Manuals EWBL collaborates with the FGM/C Working Group hosted at the Legal Vice Presidency to create, disseminate, and deliver training targeted at legal capacity building for professionals and communities. FGM Legal Training Manual - Nigeria (2022) FGM Legal Training Manual - Senegal (2022) FGM Legal Training Manual - Guinea Bissau (2022) FGM Legal Literacy Community Training Manual - Guinea (2022) FGM Legal Literacy Community Training Manual - Guinea Bissau (2022) AROUND THE WORLD BANK GROUP Global Forum on Law, Justice and Development Compact & Forum for SDG 16 Gender at the World Bank Women, Business and the Law Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->