Modern Credit Infrastructure Allows for Quicker Loans --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Modern Credit Infrastructure Allows for Quicker Loans April 2, 2015 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Alam is in the process of applying for a loan. He runs a small store in downtown Kabul, selling mobile phones. Rumi Consultancy/World Bank STORY HIGHLIGHTS Private sector businesses in Afghanistan can now expect more timely banking transactions as a result of improved systems. Systems, such as the Collateral Registry and Public Credit Registry, recently put in place are facilitating access to loans and benefiting small businesses. The modernization of the credit infrastructure has been supported through the World Bank Group: i.e. International Development Association (IDA) and International Financial Corporation (IFC). KABUL CITY, Afghanistan – Alam Dad received a loan in just 10 days instead of the several weeks that he would normally expect. He still cannot believe that it happened so quickly. “It would take my friends weeks, and even months, but I managed to receive a loan of $5,000 in such a short time,” he says. Alam, 37, who goes by one name like many Afghans, will add the loan to his current capital of about $10,000. He operates a small shop selling mobile phones in Kabul City. “This is the first time I’ve requested and received a loan. I put my house title deed as guarantee,” says Alam, who supports a family of five. “I decided to increase my capital through borrowing some money and, hence, increase my income.” The institution that provided Alam with the loan is the First Microfinance Bank of Afghanistan (FMFB-A). The bank has more than 60,000 active clients, among whom are nearly 10,000 women, who have secured loans ranging between $200 and $100,000. Most of the clients are low-income individuals who have taken loans to improve their livelihood. Shabnam using the new systems. Rumi Consultancy/World Bank " With the activation of the Collateral Registry and Public Credit Registry systems, our work quality has improved significantly and the risks have greatly reduced. " Shabnam Ashraf Employee, First Microfinance Bank of Afghanistan Munir Ahmad Samay says this is one of the forms that clients have to fill out in order to be registered in PSR program. Rumi Consultancy/World Bank Information a click away Recent credit infrastructure modernization in the banking sector have made transactions easier to process, and have facilitated access to loans for small businesses such as Alam’s. FMFB-A’s deputy of the operations department, Nawid Rahyab, says: “Banks used to have lots of challenges in issuing loans as there was no organized online structure for assessing and managing risks. However, now it is very easy to access information to assess and manage risks.” A key improvement was the establishment of the Collateral Registry (CR) and Public Credit Registry (PCR) systems, which has enabled FMFB-A to expedite the process of loan issuance, according to Rahyab. The core objectives and priorities of the CR and PCR systems are to provide secure loans and facilitate private sector access to much needed loans. Another bank employee, Shabnam Ashraf, explains: “Previously, if someone applied for a loan and we wanted to make sure that the person has not received loans from other banks, we would send a letter to other banks asking for information. This was expensive and time consuming, and there were lots of other paperwork requirements associated with the process”. “But with the activation of CR and PCR systems, our work quality has improved significantly and the risks have greatly reduced. Previously, we had to wait for days for the answer to our letters to arrive, but now it is only a matter of seconds and clicks, and we get all the information about the clients.” New systems put Afghanistan one step ahead The CR and PCR systems have been put in operation by Da Afghanistan Bank (DAB), Afghanistan’s central bank, with support from the World Bank Group’s International Development Association (IDA), and the International Financial Corporation (IFC) with financial support from Harakat . The Collateral Registry and the Public Credit Registry became fully operational in 2014 and are now used by all commercial banks. Bank officials in Afghanistan say that with the establishment of these systems they have taken a step ahead of most of their neighbouring countries. “Only a handful of Asian and European use these systems. We owe a great debt of gratitude to the World Bank, IFC, and other donors for financially supporting the project,” says Hasibullah Refa, AIB’s Trade Finance and Loan Operations Manager. RELATED WORLD BANK World Bank South Asia on Facebook World Bank South Asia on Twitter International Development Association (IDA) IFC EXTERNAL Collateral Registry (CR) Public Credit Registry Da Afghanistan Bank (DAB) First Microfinance Bank of Afghanistan (FMFB-A) Afghanistan Home Financial Inclusion Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.