Empowering communities: Brighter Homes, Brighter Futures Who We Are News This page in: English Français This page in: English Français FEATURE STORY February 5, 2025 Empowering communities: Brighter Homes, Brighter Futures Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Andriamparany Fiononana, a second-year student, doing his homework. Photo: Tsiky Ranaivoarisoa / World Bank Access to electricity is a lifeline, not just a utility. For countries like Madagascar, it holds the key to transforming lives, creating jobs, driving economic growth, boosting productivity, improving and enhancing human capital outcomes, and opening the doors to digital inclusion. By empowering communities with this essential service, nations like Madagascar can build a robust foundation for sustainable development and a brighter future. Under his mother's watchful eye and the bright light of a bulb, 15-year-old Andriamparany Fiononana, a second-year student, does his homework. “ It's nice to have light. We didn't have any before, and I used to learn my lessons and do my homework by candlelight. I would get sore eyes from forcing my eyes to work in the dark, ” he says. “ Sometimes, I even have to wake him up because he falls asleep on his notebook, which is already full of candle remnants ”, adds his mother, Marie Lydia Rasahondramalala. The household has had electricity for two weeks. “It was a great joy for all of us when the light arrived at home,” recalls Falimanana Randrianjakazafy, Marie Lydia's husband. “We've never had electricity before, this is the first time. When we come home at night, we're no longer afraid, because the courtyard is also lit up,” says this farmer who lives in Andranomanelatra, 15km from the town of Antsirabe. Herilanto Rasoloniaina, young hairdresser. Photo: Tsiky Ranaivoarisoa / World Bank Herilanto Rasoloniaina, a young hairdresser in the Andranomanelatra commune, is also very happy. His small business was recently connected to the national electricity company (JIRAMA) network. “Since I've had electricity, I get twice as many customers, from 15 to 30 a day now, and my electricity bill for the month doesn't exceed 10,000 ariary ($2),” he says. Supported by the Least-Cost Electricity Access Development ( LEAD) Project , financed by the World Bank, vulnerable households and small businesses located close to the JIRAMA power grids can apply for an affordable electricity connection, and gain access within a reduced timeframe. This network densification initiative, known locally as Branchement Mora , will connect 200,000 households nationwide by June 2025. The cost of connection, normally around 500,000 ariary ($106), has been reduced to 30,000 ariary ($6), making it 16 times cheaper. The LEAD Project covers the total cost of new and upgraded connections, including materials and installation. The project also funds the extension of the JIRAMA electricity network, providing all necessary materials, equipment, and covering installation costs. Soon, 1,500 kilometers of medium and low voltage lines will be installed nationwide to connect more households and small businesses. By targeting consumers near the current network infrastructure, mainly in peri-urban and rural areas, this project aims to increase the rural population’s access to electricity, currently at 11%, and help more residents gain access to electricity through the grid. “With the support of the LEAD Project, 1,000 villages across Madagascar will benefit from the extension of the JIRAMA network. Over 200,000 households will receive new installations at affordable prices and within a shorter timeframe,” explains Xavier Rakotozafy, LEAD Project Coordinator at JIRAMA. “The goal is not only to increase electricity access for more Malagasy people but also to enhance JIRAMA's revenue and financial performance, enabling the public utility to offer better services to the population.” In the village of Anosimboahangy, just 7km from Andranomanelatra commune, electricity is not yet available. However, the presence of 91 poles, 6km of wires, and transformers along the road to the village gives the villagers plenty of hope. New electricity poles and wires along the road leading to the village of Anosimboahangy. Photo: Tsiky Ranaivoarisoa / World Bank Residents of Anosimboahangy gather around the mayor and JIRAMA agents. Photo: Tsiky Ranaivoarisoa / World Bank On a Friday afternoon, the population gathered with the mayor and JIRAMA agents to demonstrate their desire to be connected to the electricity network. Theogene Rahajanirina, president of the village infrastructure committee, spoke on behalf of all the villagers, inquiring about their connection requests. “You can already see that the work is finished. You'll soon have electricity in your homes. We'll process your connection requests as quickly as possible,” promises Madame Herilala Ranivoarisoa, Regional Director of JIRAMA in this Vakinankaratra region. Theogene works in metalworks in Antsirabe and has to leave his family and home in Anosimboahangy to return only on weekends, as his work relies on constant electricity. “As soon as we have electricity, I won't have to go to Antsirabe. I'll stay with my family and won't have to rent a small house for my work,” he confides, full of hope and almost impatient. “High levels of poverty and low population density outside urban areas make electrification efforts challenging. Additionally, JIRAMA's financial performance doesn’t allow for sufficient resources to invest in expanding access to electricity,” explains Komenan Koffi, World BankTask Team Leader and Energy Expert in Madagascar. “The LEAD Project aims to address these challenges by financing network extension and densification. This approach should significantly improve access to electricity in Madagascar, particularly in rural and peri-urban areas.” By expanding the electricity grid, increasing connections in underserved areas, deploying mini-grids and solar solutions to remote communities, driving policy reforms, and mobilizing private investment, the LEAD Project aligns with the goals of Mission 300 , a partnership by the World Bank Group, AfDB and other partners, to connect 300 million people to electricity in Sub-Saharan Africa by 2030. It also supports Madagascar's goals of job creation, enhanced education, and improved health, driving economic growth and fostering an inclusive society where everyone and every community can thrive. Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×