The Japan Social Development Fund: Celebrating 25 Years of Community-centered Interventions Who We Are News This page in: English 日本語 This page in: English 日本語 FEATURE STORY January 8, 2025 The Japan Social Development Fund: Celebrating 25 Years of Community-centered Interventions Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina STORY HIGHLIGHTS: In 2025 the Japan Social Development Fund (JSDF) marks its 25th Anniversary Working directly with communities, the JSDF has funded nearly 800 projects in more than 90 countries, improving the lives and livelihoods of millions of people since 2000 In 2024, jointly with the government of Japan, the JSDF streamlined grant approval procedures to enhance its operational efficiency for greater impact In January 2025, annual consultations between the Government of Japan and the World Bank provide an opportunity to reflect on 25 years of community-centered interventions Year 2025 marks the 25th Anniversary of the Japan Social Development Fund ( JSDF ). Conceived as a partnership between the government of Japan and the World Bank, the JSDF was initially created to alleviate the social and economic distress caused by the East Asian financial crisis in the late 1990s. The JSDF soon expanded its mission to reach the most vulnerable communities in developing countries, providing direct funding to innovative grassroots interventions. Since 2000, the JSDF has funded nearly 800 projects in more than 90 countries, touching the lives of tens of millions of people. "We wanted to change people's lives, to help them when crises hit,” said Daiho Fujii, Deputy Vice Minister of Finance for International Affairs at the Japanese Ministry of Finance. “And we wanted to bring about transformative change to make them more resilient when times get rough." Today, as intersecting global crises pose direct threats to the livelihoods of vulnerable communities across the world, this ambition remains just as relevant as it was a quarter century ago. Placing communities front and center From the outset, the JSDF took an innovative approach to funding development interventions. Unlike other World Bank projects that work mainly with central governments, the JSDF carved a niche by funding small-scale, community projects with direct grants. "Our goal was to have a direct impact on the poorest of the poor in the most vulnerable communities." said Arif Zulfiqar, Former Director of Trust Funds and Cofinancing and one of the founders of JSDF. "Community-driven development was an approach that we thought was important to build into the program." To this day, JSDF-funded initiatives are often designed and implemented locally, ensuring that communities own and lead every step of the process. Working directly with local partners enables JSDF projects to respond to community-specific challenges. For example, in Armenia , a partnership with associations of social workers helped marginalized groups more easily access social services. In Kyrgyz Republic , the JSDF helped increase self-employment amongst vulnerable youth by working through rural development foundations. In Vietnam , the JSDF has improved pandemic preparedness at the grassroots level by partnering with local non-governmental organizations. Finally, in India it enhanced digital financial inclusion of informal sector women thanks to its partnership with a local non-governmental organization. A force for social inclusion The JSDF has been a critical partner in supporting marginalized groups and helping ensure that development interventions leave no one behind. In Honduras , a project managed by a local non-governmental organization worked in collaboration with indigenous peoples to support the community's socio-economic activities in agriculture, fisheries, and livestock rearing, and increase household incomes. In Cambodia , JSDF helped provide childcare services to low-income garment factory workers. In Solomon Islands , a JSDF grant piloted mechanisms to share benefits from large infrastructure projects with local communities. The JSDF's focus on local innovation and flexibility is one of its hallmarks. “JSDF projects are flexible, and they are adaptable," said Maitreyi Bordia Das, Director of Trust Funds and Partner Relations Development Finance at the World Bank. "They are meant to be forward-looking, so development solutions are often picked up by larger projects. The focus on community-driven and innovative projects is what makes JSDF unique, relevant, and sustainable, 25 years on." Embracing change for more impact In 2024, the JSDF worked with the government of Japan to streamline its grant approval processes and make it more efficient. The change aligns with the World Bank’s ongoing evolution to become faster and better. The JSDF is also strengthening its focus on results. In 2024, it updated its results framework , to match project indicators to the World Bank Group Corporate Scorecard . These changes will allow to better map, track and compare results, which will ultimately lead to better designed, more responsive, and more impactful interventions. As the JSDF celebrates its 25th anniversary, its proven model of community-driven development, coupled with Japan’s commitment to global solidarity, will continue to help communities build resilience and pilot development solutions to the challenges of today. RELATED Japan Social Development Fund JSDF result stories Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×