Linking Up: Public-Private Partnerships in Power Transmission in Africa --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Understanding Poverty Topics Energy publication Linking Up: Public-Private Partnerships in Power Transmission in Africa Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> STORY HIGHLIGHTS A new World Bank report finds that the private sector can play a vital role in financing, building, operating and building power transmission lines in Africa, helping take electricity to millions in the region. To attract the private sector, African governments should focus on improving the investment climate and having the appropriate regulations and incentives in place. Report draws on successful experiences in Latin America and Asia where private sector participation in the sector has resulted in reduced project costs and helped expand electricity coverage. A new World Bank report entitled “ Linking Up: Public-Private Partnerships in Power Transmission in Africa ” suggests that it is possible for the private sector to finance, build and maintain Africa’s electricity transmission infrastructure - also known as the independent power transmission model (IPT) - and help expand electricity coverage in the region. The report examines similar models in Brazil, Chile, India, Peru and the Philippines where the private sector has successfully built transmission network infrastructure and proposes that the same is possible in Africa, where two in three people still live without access to electricity. to those who need it most. – something the region’s electricity utilities that are often state-run, will not be able to fulfill on their own. These investments are critical to delivering cost-effective power to households and industries, making it all the more important for the private sector participate. The report outlines 10 steps that African governments must take to make it attractive for the private sector to invest in the region’s electricity transmission infrastructure: Develop policies that support IPTs Develop legal and regulatory frameworks to support IPTs Conduct trials of IPTs alongside existing business models of transmission Introduce new models for concessional finance Identify the stage at which to tender transmission projects Determine payments to IPTs based on transmission availability Ensure adequate revenue flow and credit enhancement for projects Tailor IPT projects to attract international investors Prepare to implement IPT transactions, and Run competitive tenders for IPTs The report suggests that the next key step will be to begin piloting a few new projects in Africa to scale up electricity access and pave the way for a sustainable power sector. Full Report Linking Up: Public-Private Partnerships in Power Transmission in Africa RELATED Press Release Jun 06, 2017 World Bank Energy World Bank Africa Home --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.