Jamaica: Can an Hour a Week Change a Child’s Life? The Strategic Impact Evaluation Fund (SIEF) BRIEF October 31, 2021 Jamaica: Can an Hour a Week Change a Child’s Life? Email Print Tweet Share Share LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Researchers assessed the long-term impact of a special program to help mothers learn how to use play and talk to stimulate their children. The children were between the ages of nine months and 24 months when the two-year program was launched in the late 1980s in a slum in Jamaica’s capital Kingston, and they already were stunted, a sign of severe malnutrition that can harm cognitive development. Researchers went back almost 20 years later to measure how well the original participants, who were now young adults, were doing. They found that children whose mothers took place in the weekly meetings were now less likely to have engaged in violent behavior, and more likely to be employed and to have finished school, when compared with children who didn’t receive the program. In adidtion, their earnings were about 25 percent higher than children not in the program, which put them on par with a comparison group of non-stunted children from the same area. The results have aparked numerous new programs around the globe, as governments and development organizations seek to learn how to replicate the results through cost effective programs at scale. RELATED WORLD BANK 30 Years after the Jamaica Program (Funded by SIEF) Publications "Early Childhood Stunting Is Associated with Lower Developmental Levels in the Subsequent Generation of Children," The Journal of Nutrition (February 2015) "Labor market returns to an early childhood stimulation intervention in Jamaica," (Science, 2014) "Labor Market Returns to Early Childhood Stimulation: a 20-year Followup to an Experimental Intervention in Jamaica," NBER (2013) "Early Childhood Stimulation in the Developing and Developed World: If Not Now, When?" Pediatrics Commentary (May 2011) "Early Childhood Stimulation Benefits Adult Competence and Reduces Violent Behavior," Pediatrics (May 2011) RELATED Media and Presentations Video: The Power of Play (2016) Infographic: The Power of Play (2014) "James Heckman: In early childhood education, ‘Quality really matters.’'" The Washington Post (2013) "Early-childhood stimulation improves earnings of disadvantaged children, study finds," The Daily Californian (2014) "Playtime With Mom Helps Boost Toddlers' Under-Developed Brains," NPR (2014) "Training the Brain to Lift Toddlers Out of Poverty," Science (2014) "For Poor Kids, New Proof That Early Help Is Key," The Wall Street Journal (2014) "Q/A: Sally McGregor on Jamaica’s Pioneering Role in Early Childhood Development," World Bank Blog (2014) "Evaluation Builds Evidence of the Importance of Early Childhood Interventions," Brief (2016) "On International Children’s Day, Reflecting on the Impact of Early Childhood Development," World Bank Blog (2015) Show More + Show Less - Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->