Sustainable Energy for All by 2030 --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Sustainable Energy for All by 2030 June 14, 2012 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> The World Bank STORY HIGHLIGHTS Goal 1: Achieve universal access to electricity and clean cooking fuels. Goal 2: Double the share of the world’s energy supplied by renewable sources from 15% to 30%. Goal 3: Double the rate of improvement in energy efficiency. Recognizing urgent energy challenges and opportunities, the Bank Group has joined the United Nations’ Sustainable Energy for All Initiative which calls on governments, businesses and civil society to achieve three goals by 2030. To help achieve these goals, the Bank Group is scaling up its already extensive program of support for sustainable energy for poverty reduction. The WBG is already strongly engaged in many of the high impact areas identified in the Sustainable Energy for All Action Agenda, including electrification, grid infrastructure and supply efficiency, distributed electricity solutions, large scale renewable power, cleaner transportation, gas flaring reduction, buildings and appliance standards, modern cooking fuels, and appliances. The Bank Group’s central contribution to the Sustainable Energy for All initiative is its energy sector lending program, which commits over $8 billion a year to energy programs across the developing world. This financing leverages a comparable amount of private, donor and public funding, for a total of $16 billion of support a year, a large proportion of which is focused directly on the three goals. Inclusive Green Growth Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP) Global Gas Flaring Reduction Partnership (GGFR) IFC Climate & Power IDA at Work- Energy Lighting Africa Lighting Asia Carbon Finance Global Partnership for Output-Based Aid (GPOBA) Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility Africa Renewable Energy Access Program (AFREA) Asia Sustainable and Alternative Energy Program (ASTAE) RELATED WORLD BANK Brochure: Sustainable Energy for All Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.