The Gambia First Economic Update: How to Transform the Labor Market and Build a Resilient Post-COVID Economy? Where We Work The Gambia publication publication March 18, 2021 The Gambia First Economic Update: How to Transform the Labor Market and Build a Resilient Post-COVID Economy? Latest Issue: March 2021 Latest Issue: March 2021 --> Email Print Tweet Share Share LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Billboard in a street of Banjul, The Gambia. Photo: Mademba Ndiaye, World Bank STORY HIGHLIGHTS The World Bank has released its first Economic Update on The Gambia, an annual publication that highlights recent economic trends, medium-term macroeconomic outlook and discusses development issues relevant to the country. COVID-19 pandemic interrupted a promising start and took a toll on key sectors like tourism, says the report which highlights high uncertainty of the country’s economic outlook and forecasts growth stagnation in 2020, but gradual recovery in 2021. The report also focuses on how to create more inclusive jobs, especially for women and young people and provides some recommendations to build the resilience of the economy to withstand various shocks. BANJUL, The Gambia, March 18, 2021 — According to the World Bank’s first Economic Update on the Gambia, real GDP growth exceeded 6% two years in a row before COVID-19 struck, driven by rebounding confidence, investment, low interest rates, and growing tourism. While Tourism arrivals had started well at the beginning of 2020, they collapsed by about 50% in March 2020, as containment measures were put in place swiftly. GDP ­growth is expected to have st­agn­ated in 2020, however, the economy is expected to gradually recover in 2021 as the pandemic recedes, conditional on political stability and normal weather conditions. The report, Preserving the Gains , notes that the impact of the pandemic has also hindered poverty reduction and reversed some of the poverty reduction in 2020 with most households reporting declining income from agriculture and fishing, non-farm businesses, and salaried employment. Moreover, the closure of schools, during the lockdown, is expected to have resulted in learning losses, which could affect human development outcomes in the long term, while limited digital infrastructure hampered online learning. “Prior to COVID-19, The Gambia’s economic prospects had been improving but the pandemic interrupted a promising start to 2020,” stated Mehwish Ashraf, World Bank Country Economist and lead author of the report. “That being said, the economy has weathered the pandemic better than anticipated and is expected to start recovering gradually in 2021, although the outlook remains uncertain.” On a more positive note, the report highlights that official remittances grew at record pace in the second quarter of 2020, perhaps due to travel restrictions closing informal channels. As a result, international reserves continued to rise in 2020. The crisis has also put downward pressure on inflation, which had previously been increasing. Favorable rainfall, good access to inputs, and few pest outbreaks have resulted in a strong turnaround in agricultural output. The report appreciates Government’s early interventions to mitigate some of the pandemic’s impact. However, the report stresses on doing more for the service sector businesses and informal workers who risk falling into poverty as the pandemic endures and risks disrupting the tourism season. This report also notes that The Gambia reinstated fiscal discipline in 2019. The country has registered an overall fiscal deficit of 2.5% of GDP in 2019 —the lowest level in a decade. The fiscal deficit, however, rose in the first half of 2020 to accommodate pandemic-related spending pressures, although tax revenue showed resilience in the face of the shock. Donor assistance and budget grants also supported government’s expanded spending. The Government continues to make large transfers to state-owned enterprises, the fiscal burden of which is estimated to be around 6% of 2019 GDP. The report emphasizes on the need to broaden, deepen, and maintain the momentum of the state-owned enterprises legislative and regulatory reforms. Restructuring and performance improvement plans should be prepared and implemented for those enterprises with the most significant impact on the economy and on public finances in the first phase. The report’s first special section focuses on promoting a more inclusive jobs agenda, as The Gambia is not yet fully exploiting the demographic dividend from its young population and growing labor force. The economy’s inability to create enough high-quality jobs could explain the underuse of the working-age population. An inclusive labor market will require job creation and wage growth, which depend on a successful transformation of the economy and higher productivity. Given The Gambia’s high vulnerability to external shocks, the second special section discusses strengthening resilience to preserve macroeconomic stability and development gains. This will require improving spending efficiency and increasing tax revenues as well as reducing debt burden in the long term. Robust digital infrastructure will be crucial to build resilience in the face of shocks, including the pandemic. Equally important will be a robust electrical system and the water, sanitation, and hygiene infrastructure. “The Gambia’s economy is highly vulnerable to external shocks, given its size and high concentration in agriculture and tourism, and the COVID-19 pandemic highlights the need for the country to develop resilience, particularly across three dimensions: climate, infrastructure, and fiscal resilience,” said Feyi Boroffice, World Bank Resident Representative. RELATED WORLD BANK FULL REPORT: The Gambia Economic Update: Preserving the Gains KEY MESSAGES: The Gambia Economic Update: Preserving the Gains PRESS RELEASE: Preserving the Gambia’s Recent Gains and Reviving the Economy After COVID-19 Will Depend on Strengthening Resilience Websites The World Bank in The Gambia The World Bank in Africa Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->