Event | 25th Disaster Risk Management Seminar "Resilient Housing Reconstruction for a Changing World: Global Lessons and Japanese Innovations" Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events 25th Disaster Risk Management Seminar "Resilient Housing Reconstruction for a Changing World: Global Lessons and Japanese Innovations" Share Organized by the World Bank’s Tokyo Disaster Risk Management (DRM) Hub managed by the Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery (GFDRR), in collaboration with Global Program for Resilient Housing (GPRH), Urban, Resilience and Land Global Practice, the World Bank. OVERVIEW RELATED In 2024, global economic losses resulting from natural disasters amounted to USD 320 billion. Of the damaged buildings, an estimated 80–90%—accounting for approximately 50% of total monetary losses—were residential structures. While the World Bank has supported post-disaster and post-conflict housing recovery in countries around the world for over 40 years, the increasing frequency of disasters and rapid urbanization underscore the need for a more comprehensive approach during non-crisis periods. A recent comprehensive review of over 80 post-disaster housing recovery projects supported by the World Bank revealed the need to revisit the traditional definitions of “success.” Drawing from this review, the forthcoming report proposes a paradigm shift—emphasizing the importance of strengthening “Housing Resilience Capacity” prior to disasters. This concept refers to the ability of governments and societies to provide adequate housing before, during, and after a disaster event. As the World Bank and the countries work to strengthen disaster resilience in the housing sector, Japan’s extensive experience in the housing sector offers valuable lessons. Over the past century, Japan’s approach to housing reconstruction has undergone significant evolution, shaped by the lessons learned from repeated large-scale disasters. In response, Japan has progressively enhanced its institutional frameworks and implementation mechanisms for housing recovery. Notably, Japan’s housing recovery model also reflects adaptability to long-term societal changes such as aging populations. Japan’s experience—with its stringent building codes, strong engagement of the private sector, multi-stakeholder collaboration involving local governments, communities, and experts, and a strong emphasis on community-driven recovery—provides a highly instructive model for other countries seeking to strengthen disaster resilience in the housing sector. Program Part I (2:00pm-3:25pm) Opening Remarks Takahiro Tsuda Director, Multilateral Development Banks Division, International Bureau, Ministry of Finance, Japan Presentation 1 "Housing Policy for the New Paradigm: Lessons Learned from World Bank Disaster Recovery Projects (FY 1980⁠–2024)" Luis Miguel Triveno Chan Jan Senior Urban Development Specialist, World Bank Presentation 2 "Lessons from Decades of Housing Reconstruction in Japan" Norio Maki Professor, Kyoto University Presentation 3 "Housing Reconstruction after the 2011 Tohoku Earthquake and Tsunami" Haruka Tsukuda Professor, Tohoku University Presentation 4 "Housing Reconstruction and Collective Decision Making" Kanako Iuchi Professor, Tohoku University Part II (3:40pm-5:00pm) Panel Discussion and Q&A Above presenters Moderator & Closing Remarks Niels B. Holm-Nielsen Practice Manager, GFDRR, World Bank DATE/TIME: 2:00pm – 5:00pm, Wednesday, May 14, 2025 FORMAT: Hybrid (In-person participation or online participation by Webex) VENUE for in-person participants: World Bank Tokyo Office (Fukoku Seimei Building 14th floor, 2-2-2 Uchisaiwaicho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo) *Please refer "ACCESS" in RELATED below LANGUAGE: English and Japanese (with simultaneous interpretation) ADMISSION: Free CONTACT: Tokyo DRM Hub 03-3597-1320 drmhubtokyo@worldbank.org ACCESS World Bank Tokyo Office RELATED Tokyo Disaster Risk Management Hub Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×