Beyond Connections: Energy Access Redefined --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Understanding Poverty Topics Energy publication Beyond Connections: Energy Access Redefined Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> ESMAP / World Bank Is having an electricity line run into your home the same as you being able to turn on lights or appliances without worrying if it is affordable and of good quality? And is access to energy any good if it is often unreliable, inconvenient or unsafe? Simply put, measuring whether someone has energy access or not does not paint a complete picture of the quality of access itself. This new report entitled Beyond Connections: Energy Access Redefined , proposes a new multi-tier framework for defining and measuring access to energy. Binary metrics -- whether a household has an electricity connection, and whether a household cooks with fuels like charcoal or dung -- don’t help us understand the phenomenon of expanding energy access and how it impacts socio-economic development. The framework covers not just energy for households, work spaces and community facilities. Why is this important? Because access to good quality, reliable, convenient, affordable and safe energy can change lives. It can reduce human effort, enhance comfort and enable telecommunications, education and better healthcare. It can reduce the time spent on fuel gathering and benefit women and girls in particular, and reduce the harmful impacts from smoky cook stoves. Access to reliable and quality energy supply can boost productivity and economic activity, which can in turn create opportunities for jobs and incomes. It can also improve public safety, and facilitate the delivery of education, health services and e-governance. The multi-tier framework can be used as a tool for setting goals for investment prioritization and tracking progress. It will help capture the multiple modes of delivering energy access from grid to off-grid and to the range of cooking methods and fuels people use. Finally, it could also help reflect the contributions of various programs, agencies, and national governments toward achieving the Sustainable Energy for All (SE4All) goals. The report was produced jointly by the World Bank’s Energy and Extractives Global Practice and the World Bank’s Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP) and supported by key partner organizations and agencies. RELATED Full Report Feature Story: Where Does the World Stand in Reaching Sustainable Energy Objectives? Report: Progress Toward Sustainable Energy: Global Tracking Framework 2015 Data: Progress Toward Sustainable Energy - Global Tracking Framework 2015 Infographic: Progress Toward Sustainable Energy Goals Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP) Press Release: New Report Finds World Progressing on Sustainable Energy Goals But Still Far From Finish Line Multi-tier Framework Questionnaire Show More + RELATED EXTERNAL Initiative: Sustainable Energy for All (SE4All) --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.