Event | TICAD9 Thematic Session “Enhancing Continental Food Self-sufficiency and Job Creation through Resilient Food System and Private Sector Development in Africa” Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events TICAD9 Thematic Session “Enhancing Continental Food Self-sufficiency and Job Creation through Resilient Food System and Private Sector Development in Africa” Share Organized by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) Co-organized by AUDA-NEPAD Overview Background Agricultural trade in African region is projected to increase by 574% if tariffs are eliminated by 2030 with the implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) (WEF 2023). However, the “complex crises” that have become endemic in recent years are a major stumbling obstacle to unlocking the potential of the agricultural sector, ensuring food security in Africa, strengthening industrial competitiveness, and achieving stable economic growth. In this context, it is essential to consider strategies for establishing stable food supplies and agro-industrial value chains by fully utilizing the AfCFTA. JICA has been collaborating with AUDA-NEPAD, the AfCFTA secretariat, and related agencies to promote agricultural and industrial development in Africa and to promote job creation, particularly for youth and women, in line with African continental agenda. JICA’s cooperation for regional engagement and the implementation of AfCFTA is promoted through a variety of initiatives, Agricultural Promotion (CARD, SHEP), KAIZEN, innovation promotion (NINJA), corridor infrastructure development and trade facilitation (OSBP, etc.). Key Questions Session 1: Building Resilient Agri-Food Systems in Africa The Kampala CAADP Declaration, signed in January 2025, adopted a 10-year action plan for the implementation of CAADP. The action plan identifies the strengthening of Agri-Food Systems as a central issue. As one of the approaches, the food basket approach has been proposed by the AU, and it aims to establish food security in the region by setting priority crops in each region of the African continent (East Africa, Central Africa, Southern Africa, West Africa and North Africa) and concentrating investment and production of the designated crops there. In order to establish food security and achieve self-sufficiency in the region, it is important not only to increase production but also to promote the distribution of crops produced in the region. In addition, many countries are currently depending on imports from outside the continent, and strengthening their competitiveness against import products is crucial. This session will discuss how JICA is trying to address this challenge through the JICA Africa Food Security Initiative launched by JICA after TICAD 8, with a focus on rice, with which Japan has been cooperating in Africa for many years. Case studies will also be shared from public and private sector stakeholders in East Africa, and specific measures and strategies will also be discussed to promote intra-regional distribution through a food basket approach and to strengthen competitiveness against imports from outside the region. Session 2: Job Creation by Improvement of Agro-industrial Value Chain and Promotion of Agroindustry In Africa, the development of the agricultural sector is essential for ensuring food security and achieving stable economic growth. Under these circumstances, in addition to support for the development of the agricultural sector with improvement of productivity, JICA has been providing variety of support to promote agro-industry and its value chain, including support for innovation creation through startups), capacity development via KAIZEN, human resource development through BDS in the industrial sector, and export-related product branding support, etc. In this session, we will discuss the following challenges through the latest case studies to maximize the benefits of the AfCFTA, strengthen the agro-industrial value chain in the region and in each country, and increase employment opportunities for youth and women: (i) revitalization and high value addition of industry in the region, especially agrii-businesses; (ii) industrial human resource development to support free trade and industrial promotion; (iii) the improvement of the intra-regional trade environment. Objective This seminar aims to identify potential actions for achieving sustainable growth in Africa’s agricultural sector and job creation within its value chains, with a view to working with development partners, taking East Africa as an example and presenting the latest initiatives and case studies. Speaker from World Bank Andrew Dabalen Chief Economist for Africa, World Bank Event Details Date/Time 9:00am-11:30am, Wednesday, August 20, 2025 (Japan Standard Time) Venue InterContinental Yokohama Grand Hotel Access Format Hybrid (In-person participation and online participation) Details and registration Please see JICA’s webpage: Enhancing Continental Food Self-sufficiency and Job Creation through Resilient Food System and Private Sector Development in Africa” Contact Koichi Omori, World Bank Tokyo Office komori@worldbankgroup.org Related The Ninth Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD 9) official site World Bank Africa Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×