#EndPoverty in Cambodia: “It Is Time for Me to Give Back” Who We Are News This page in: EN --> dropdown ខ្មែរ This page in: _ English ខ្មែរ --> dropdown FEATURE STORY October 17, 2020 #EndPoverty in Cambodia: “It Is Time for Me to Give Back” Email Print Tweet Share Share LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Saroeun Bou, External Affairs Officer in Phnom Penh, Cambodia. Photo: Saroeun Phallika For Saroeun Bou, External Affairs Officer in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, the move from an abusive, poor, and uneducated family to what he has achieved today has been an amazing transformation. On the International Day for the Eradication of Poverty (October 17), Saroeun shares his life story and his lifelong commitment to ending poverty. 1. Tell us about yourself. Saroeun Bou (SB): I was born into a very poor family in a remote area of Cambodia. Unfortunately, my parents were uneducated and there was domestic violence, so I ran away from home when I was about 15. I became homeless, scavenging for castaway stuff that I could sell to be recycled so I could survive in the city. Luckily, in the mid-1980s I was brought back to school. While in school, I still worked as a scavenger, a cyclo (rickshaw) driver, and an informal performer of traditional Basac theater (similar to Chinese Opera) in order to earn my living. My classmates helped by raising money to buy me notebooks, pens, uniforms and a school bag. Because I was poor, when I finished high school I had to start working full time. I became a waiter for several years and then worked as a reporter for more than six years. In 2002, I joined the World Bank. Now, I am the External Affairs Officer at the World Bank Cambodia Country Office. 2. Did you develop a passion for poverty reduction growing up? What triggered your interest in development work? SB: Living through a hard life and meeting many poor kids certainly developed a passion within me. This passion is about education and helping the poor. I really believe that education can help even the poorest families move out from poverty and find health and happiness. I have got to where I am today because I was given the chance to attend school at a relatively advanced age. I am full of thanks for all the generous support I received. Without that help, I could not have come this far. It is time for me to give back. To pay back this debt, alongside my work at the World Bank, I have two most important social activities. First, I raise funds to buy bicycles that can make it possible for poor children to get to school, notably for those who live more than 4 km from school. A high school principal once told me that of the students living more than 7 kilometers from school, over half drop out – especially girls. This is a big concern. Therefore, last year alone I mobilized nearly 300 bicycles, worth more than $10,000, for poor students. Second, since the COVID-19 pandemic arrived, I have raised funds to buy food for the most affected people, such as scavengers, the homeless, cyclo drivers and those selling small goods on the streets. Many of these people have seen their daily earnings dwindle to about 20 percent of what it used to be. So far this work has distributed more than 1,000 packages, each containing 10 kg of rice, fish sauce, soy sauce, canned fish, noodles, hand spray, soap and facemasks. "To me, ending poverty means I can see beautiful smiles. It means that poor people can move out of poverty and enjoy their lives and their families, and so grow together in a peaceful community. " Saroeun Bou In Cambodia, Saroeun Bou raises funds to buy food for the most affected people, such as scavengers, the homeless, cyclo drivers and those selling small goods on the streets. Photo: Saroeun Phallika 3. How did you end up working with the World Bank? SB: When I was a reporter, I wrote many articles about social and environmental issues. I met poor families, some of whom had even sold children so they could get money to feed the other kids in the family, along with abusive families and vulnerable groups. This made me wish that one day I could work in an organization that helped the poorest and most vulnerable. My wish came true. I was asked to be a consultant to World Bank External Affairs Officers, and to support high risk projects including the demobilization and reintegration of soldiers, land management and administration projects, and biodiversity and forestry related projects. This was a great opportunity, allowing me to help both the poor and my country. Eventually I became a staff member at the World Bank. One of my roles is to make sure that the voice of the poor is being heard. This can be done through consultations and country surveys that inform the development strategies which support Cambodia. Before joining the World Bank, Saroeun worked as a reporter in Cambodia. (Photo: Tang Chhin Sothy) 4. What was the most striking story or life-changing person you've encountered throughout your life? SB: The move from an abusive, poor and uneducated family to what I have today has been an amazing and unbelievable transformation. Just as most homeless people experience, sometimes I didn't have food to eat, no water to wash in — nothing. I drank untreated water just to fill my stomach so that I could sleep. While resting on rotting garbage and looking at the night sky, I could see the flashing lights of airplanes and I made my wish: in the next life, if I am reborn, please let me born in a better family so I can have a proper education, no abuse and I can take a flight . Now my dream has come in this life. This is because of education and the generous support from others. Therefore, I know that we can all do something to help the poor fulfill their dreams. 5. Were there any significant moments where you felt frustrated and / or rewarded while helping fight poverty? SB: I don't have any frustrations. My passion to help the poor encourages me to move on. I understand that helping the poor is not an easy task and that it takes time. We need to move closer to them and listen to them, as well as create enabling environments that provide the same opportunities that better-off families have. While I am distributing bicycles to poor students and handing food packages to the poorest, I keep telling them to continue their studies, to keep their children at school, if they want to move out of the poverty cycle. They respect this and they do it. That is a big reward for me. 6. What has been your biggest achievement and biggest challenge working on this issue in Cambodia? SB: For the biggest achievement, I feel very proud that I managed to join the World Bank and be one of those who can help the Bank find the right development strategies to support Cambodia, particularly the poor and the most vulnerable. For my biggest challenge, the number of poor people is still large in Cambodia, at 13.5% of its population. Now they are hit by the COVID-19 pandemic and so this number will increase. Therefore, big challenges lie ahead. 7. In a short sentence, tell us what ending poverty means to you. SB: To me, ending poverty means I can see beautiful smiles. It means that poor people can move out of poverty and enjoy their lives and their families, and so grow together in a peaceful community. "To me, ending poverty means I can see beautiful smiles." (Photo: Saroeun Atith Udom)​ Api Api Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->