Vietnam Development Report 2010: Modern Institutions --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Vietnam Development Report 2010: Modern Institutions December 30, 2009 This page in: English Tiếng Việt Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Vietnam Development Report 2010 — Modern Institutions emphasizes the need for new forms of accountability as Vietnam devolves responsibilities to service providers and lower levels of government. Dec 2009 - Vietnam Development Report 2010: Modern Institutions focuses on Vietnam’s most pressing governance challenges: developing oversight systems for reducing corruption, reassessing geographical decentralization, building systems of accountability to match the functional devolution to service providers, making civil service meritocratic and public financial management more transparent, and preparing the legal and judicial systems for the challenges of a dynamic, growing economy. In surveying the breadth of Vietnam’s institutional reforms and the experience of the past two decades, this Vietnam Development Report highlights several repeated themes. The extent of devolution has been substantial, both geographically and functionally. New systems of accountability are being put in place, but often with a lag and not always of the best form. In the devolved system, conflicts of interest are becoming more evident. Information plays a central role in any system of accountability. The most successful reforms had a constituency that was empowered to push for change. People are becoming more demanding—as Vietnam endeavors to develop into a modern middle-income country, the pressure for better services, and more voice and participation will only get stronger. After summarizing achievements in institutional reform, and the prospects for further devolution and accountability, the report concludes by challenging reformers: What will the next decade look like? The VDR is an annual report organized by the World Bank and released at the time of the Consultative Group meeting each year. As a multi-donor report, the VDR provides the donor community with an opportunity to collectively identify and communicate the central challenges for Vietnam. The VDR on Modern Institutions was co-signed by 14 donors, including the Asian Development Bank, Australian Agency for International Development, Canadian International Development Agency, Denmark, Department for International Development of the United Kingdom, European Commission, Finland, Japan International Cooperation Agency, Spanish Agency for International Development Cooperation, Sweden, Swiss Development Cooperation, the United Nations, the United States of America, and the World Bank. Oxfam GB also contributed to the preparation of the VDR. In addition to the intellectual contributions of participating donors, significant funding for the production and dissemination of the VDR was provided by the World Bank and by UK-DFID, through the GAPAP trust fund. RELATED WORLD BANK Vietnam development report 2010 : modern institutions Assessment: Delivery of the VDR 2010 and Impact on Policy Debates (ODI) Blog: The ebb and flow of governance terms Regional Video Conference on Vietnam Development Report 2010: Modern Institutions Vietnam development report 2012 : market economy for a middle-income Vietnam Vietnam development report 2011 : natural resources management Vietnam development report 2009 : capital matters Vietnam development report 2008 : social protection Vietnam Development Report 2007: Aiming high Vietnam development report 2006 Viet Nam - Development Report 2005 - Governance Vietnam - Development Report 2004 - Poverty Viet Nam - Delivering on its promise - development report 2003 Vietnam development report 2002 - implementing reforms for faster growth and poverty reduction EXTERNAL Thanh Nien (on administrative reforms and land) Saigon Times (on decentralization, in Vietnamese) Tuoi tre Cuoi tuan: Interview with James Anderson (in Vietnamese) Dai Doan Ket (on corruption, in Vietnamese) Viet Nam East Asia Pacific Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.