East Asia Pacific: Development news, research, data | World Bank Where We Work East Asia Pacific --> The World Bank In East Asia Pacific East Asia and Pacific is one of the world’s most disaster prone and heavily impacted regions by climate change. The World Bank is supporting innovative, impactful, scalable projects and initiatives to build resilience, reduce emissions, and protect biodiversity, and natural resources. East Asia Pacific Home Overview COVID-19 COVID-19 (Coronavirus) Response Highlights and Updates COVID-19 Workshop Series: Responding, Re-opening, Rejuvenating Brief: World Bank's COVID-19 Response in East Asia and Pacific Mongolia: $20 Million Credit to Support Workers and Employers $700 Million to Support Indonesia’s Social Assistance System $20 Million for Cambodia’s COVID-19 Response Lao PDR: Emergency Financing for COVID-19 Response Project US$30m Boost for PNG’s COVID-19 Response US$500 Million for the Philippines' COVID-19 Vaccines and Pandemic Response to Boost Resilient Recovery The first and among the hardest-hit regions by COVID-19 (coronavirus), the East Asia and Pacific (EAP) region could see up to 24 million people not being able to escape poverty in 2021 because of the pandemic. People are missing meals, school, and hospital visits – all this will unfortunately affect future generations. Depressed international demand and domestic lockdowns are leading to large numbers of job losses and bankruptcies. Small and medium enterprises and the informal sector are particularly hard hit. Since April 2020, the World Bank Group has deployed over $157 billion to fight the health, economic, and social impacts of the pandemic, the fastest and largest crisis response in its history. The financing is helping more than 100 countries strengthen pandemic preparedness, protect the poor and jobs, and jump start a climate-friendly recovery. In the EAP region, World Bank-supported emergency operations emergency operations are providing emergency financing for the purchase of medical and laboratory supplies, training of medical staff, and strengthening national public health systems. The World Bank is working with countries to redeploy existing projects to fight the COVID-19 pandemic by reallocating funds, triggering emergency components of existing projects, and activating Catastrophe Deferred Drawdown Options (CAT DDOs). The World Bank is also helping Cambodia, Indonesia, Lao PDR, Mongolia, Papua New Guinea, and the Philippines finance the purchase or distribution of COVID-19 vaccines, tests, and treatments. In Vietnam, the Bank prepared a series of policy notes with strategies and recommendations to help contain the spread of COVID-19, protect vulnerable groups from the pandemic’s impacts, and stimulate a broad-based recovery. To help countries address the anticipated severe economic, social and poverty impacts, the World Bank is working with countries in the region to strengthen social protection measures for the poor and vulnerable, support businesses and safeguard jobs, and advance the reforms needed to shorten the time to recovery and build conditions for broad-based and sustainable growth. Learn more about the World Bank’s operational response to COVID-19 in East Asia and Pacific here . MULTIMEDIA VIDEO Jun 23, 2020 COVID-19: The Road to Recovery in East Asia and the Pacific View All Multimedia Arrow COVID-19: The Road to Recovery in East Asia and the Pacific #Vaccines4All Philippines: Vilma Campos lost her job during the lockdown but is hopeful for a quick end to the health crisis now that she has been vaccinated. Watch a video. In Depth East Asia and Pacific Newsletter – July 2025 Explore the vibrant East Asia and Pacific region and stay connected with us! East Asia and Pacific Newsletter – July 2025 Blog: East Asia and Pacific on the Rise Join the conversation on important development challenges facing the East Asia and Pacific region. Blog: East Asia and Pacific on the Rise Results in East Asia and the Pacific Take a look at the results the World Bank-supported projects have achieved in the region. Results in East Asia and the Pacific Poverty & Equity Data Is there more or less inequality in your country now than 10 years ago? Did poverty go up or down? Our data portal has the answers. Poverty & Equity Data Open Data The World Bank provides free and open access to a comprehensive set of data about development in East Asia and Pacific countries and around the globe. Open Data Additional Resources Related Results in East Asia and Pacific Country Partnership Frameworks All Multimedia Contacts Washington DC Yi Gu yigu@worldbank.org View All Contacts Arrow This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×