World Bank Group Hones Poverty Strategy as Meetings Wrap --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY World Bank Group Hones Poverty Strategy as Meetings Wrap April 12, 2014 This page in: English Français العربية Русский 中文 Español Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Eugenio Salazar/World Bank STORY HIGHLIGHTS World Bank Group wins broad, uniform support for its plans to tackle poverty and prosperity goals. The Bank Group’s strategy will entail lifting 50 million people a year out of extreme poverty. In July, newly formed communities of experts will focus on bringing global solutions to local problems. A year ago, the World Bank Group won support for the audacious goal of ending extreme poverty. Today, as the 2014 International Monetary Fund-World Bank Spring Meetings wrap up, the Bank Group is close to implementing its strategy to tackle the goal. The Development Committee, the body that advises the Bank Group and the IMF on development issues, said in its communiqué that it welcomed “progress made in implementing the change agenda,” since it was endorsed six months ago, and called on the Bank Group to “work effectively to complete the reforms.” “Literally everyone from the advanced countries, from the low-income countries, from emerging countries, all the participants, all the attendees, expressed admiration" for the change process, said Development Committee Chairman Marek Belka, adding that change "is never easy, but has a potential to release a lot more from the excellent group of people that we have in the World Bank Group." “Today, I was very humbled to receive such a strong endorsement of the change agenda we’ve put forward,” said World Bank Group President Jim Yong Kim. “We have made a lot of progress … and we will continue to focus all of our efforts on improving our ability to serve clients.” At the 2013 Spring Meetings, the committee backed two goals proposed by the Bank Group: reducing extreme poverty to no more than 3% by 2030, and boosting the incomes of the bottom 40% of the population. The poverty goal will entail lifting 50 million people a year out of extreme poverty – defined as living on less than $1.25 a day. Kim said this week achieving the goal will require a “laser-like focus on making growth more inclusive and targeting more programs to assist the poor directly.” While “extraordinarily difficult,” the goal can be met, he said. “This can be the generation that ends extreme poverty.” A new paper, “Prosperity for All,” released April 10 says economic growth is vital to achieving the goals, but must be complemented by policies that allocate more resources to the extreme poor, such as cash transfer programs. " Literally everyone from the advanced countries, from the low-income countries, from emerging countries, all the participants, all the attendees, expressed admiration [for the change process]. " Marek Belka Development Committee Chairman In the last several months, the Bank Group has begun to implement a strategy to improve its effectiveness as a development institution and align its work to the goals. Changes under way include cutting costs, realigning personnel, streamlining some processes, and encouraging closer collaboration among teams and among the various arms of the Bank Group. Starting in July, the Bank Group will have communities of experts focusing on bringing “global solutions to local problems,” said Kim at his Spring Meetings opening press conference . The Bank Group will retain a strong presence in the countries where it works. The Development Committee said it expects the Bank Group’s new structure “should lead to better global knowledge sharing to benefit all client countries, and to strengthening its role in support of South-South and regional cooperation.” It also welcomed the Bank Group’s plans to increase financing capacity from $45 billion to $50 billion a year today to more than $70 billion within a decade. “We look forward to continued progress in achieving a leaner cost base via improved organizational and operational efficiencies, as well as ongoing efforts to develop innovative approaches and mechanisms to mobilize additional financing. We encourage increasing the level and quality of investment in infrastructure,” the communiqué said. The Development Committee praised the Bank Group’s “stepped-up engagement in addressing the regional drivers of fragility and conflict” through initiatives in Africa’s Sahel and Great Lakes regions, as well as its role in helping to close infrastructure gaps in Africa. The committee called for “enhanced focus” on the Middle East and North Africa and support for Arab countries in transition. “We remain deeply concerned about the continuously deteriorating humanitarian situation in the Central African Republic, South Sudan, and Syria,” the committee said. “We commend the generosity of governments and families in neighboring countries who are hosting those displaced at significant economic and social cost.” RELATED WORLD BANK Development Committee Communiqué Development Committee Website Report: Prosperity for All Replay Spring Meetings Webcasts Spring Meetings Blogs Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.