Data.gov Home - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide The Home of the U.S. Government's Open Data Here you will find data, tools, and resources to conduct research, develop web and mobile applications, design data visualizations, and more. 364,391 datasets available Search Search Most Viewed Datasets Recently Added Datasets Datasets by Organization Geospatial Mission The United States Government’s open data site is designed to unleash the power of government open data to inform decisions by the public and policymakers , drive innovation and economic activity , achieve agency missions , and strengthen the foundation of an open and transparent government . About Us Explore the timeline Metrics Below, you can view breakdowns of the type, age, and distribution of catalog.data.gov datasets. For information on top dataset page views, file downloads, and external link clicks broken down by agency, see data.gov/metrics . To learn more about the Metrics section, see the Digital.gov blog post. Last Updated: Sun, 23 Nov 2025 05:00:35 GMT Data Management & Governance Data Tools Data Incubator Guidance Case Studies & Examples Skills Development 2021 Action Plan 2020 Action Plan 2021 Action Progress 2020 Action Progress About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov