Citizen Engagement Cases in the Middle East and North Africa --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work Home publication publication Citizen Engagement Cases in the Middle East and North Africa This page in: English العربية Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Citizen engagement, or involving citizens in economic development plans, usually helps governments improve the results of their development programs. The World Bank Group’s new regional strategy in the Middle East & North Africa (MENA) supports the idea that a government’s ability to deliver better public services improves the levels of trust citizens have in their governments. The following cases are examples of citizen engagement initiatives in MENA. Tunisia adopted a new constitution in 2014, including clear commitments to decentralization and fully devolved local government with autonomy for providing local services in accordance with the transparent principles of accountability to their citizens. Tunisia: Institutionalizing Citizen Engagement in Local Governance Strengthening capacities for service delivery in Palestine at the municipal level has been central to the World Bank Group’s strategy. Municipalities have historically played an important role in governance in the region, are closest to the citizens, and provide a constant source of stability in an otherwise fragile environment. - Citizen Engagement and Public Service Delivery in the Context of Fragility - Institutionalizing Grievance Redress in Cash Transfer Programs - Social Accountability in Municipal Development Morocco - “The people want change,” Moroccans were chanting in 2011 during the protests in the Arab Spring. The Moroccan government responded with far-reaching amendments to the country’s constitution to enable greater transparency, accountability and participation. Morocco: Rebuilding Trust between Citizens and Government Jordan - Syrians benefited from large amounts of in-kind and financial support from Jordanian individuals, charities and businesses. However, with the continuation of the crisis and limited support for host communities, the burden on Jordanians has become increasingly untenable. Jordan: Engaging Citizens to Strengthen Social Cohesion and Resilience Jordan Home Morocco Tunisia West Bank and Gaza --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.