Debt Service Suspension Initiative Understanding Poverty Topics Debt: Management, Transparency, Statistics and Sustainability | World Bank This page in: English Español Français العربية 中文 This page in: English Español Français العربية 中文 BRIEF March 10, 2022 Debt Service Suspension Initiative Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina This webpage offers a country-by-country accounting of the Debt Service Suspension Initiative (DSSI) participants and the amounts suspended and potentially could be suspended, based on information from the World Bank’s International Debt Statistics (IDS) database. Data on debt stocks and debt-service payments are available on an annual as well as monthly basis. Please consult the Q&A page for more information. Overview COVID-19 has dealt a major blow to world’s poorest countries, causing a recession in 2020 that is estimated to have pushed more than 100 million people into extreme poverty. At the start of the pandemic, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund urged the G20 to set up the DSSI. Established in May 2020, the DSSI helped countries concentrate their resources on fighting the pandemic and safeguarding the lives and livelihoods of millions of the most vulnerable people. Forty-eight out of 73 eligible countries participated in the initiative before it expired at the end of December 2021. From May 2020 to December 2021, the initiative suspended $12.9 billion in debt-service payments owed by participating countries to their creditors, according to the latest estimates. The G20 has also called on private creditors to participate in the initiative on comparable terms. Regrettably, only one private creditor participated. The World Bank and the IMF supported the implementation of the DSSI —by monitoring spending, enhancing public debt transparency, and ensuring prudent borrowing. DSSI borrowers committed to use freed-up resources to increase social, health, or economic spending in response to the crisis. They pledged to disclose all public sector financial commitments (involving debt and debt-like instruments). They also committed to limit their non-concessional borrowing under the IMF arrangements and the World Bank’s Sustainable Development Finance Policy. RELATED International Statements Joint Statement from the WBG and IMF April 15, 2020: G20 Communiqué WBG and IMF Support for Debt Relief Under the Common Framework and Beyond More Information about the DSSI Data on Debt Stocks and Debt-Service Payments Factsheet Questions and Answers Explanatory Note DSSI Implementation Update Fiscal Monitoring Update Remarks by WBG President David Malpass Mar 29, 2021 Oct 5, 2020 Sep 3, 2020 Jul 18, 2020 May 28, 2020 Apr 17, 2020 Debt Resources Debtor Reporting System: Public and Publicly Guaranteed External Debt World Bank Debt Website Debt & Fiscal Risks Toolkit Debt Sustainability Analysis Additional Resources Paris Club World Bank Group and COVID-19 How DSSI Benefits Low-Income Countries (The estimates are current as of February 28, 2022) country dssi Participation? risk of external debt distress risk of overall debt distress latest DSA Estimated Deferred Debt Service 2020 6 Potential DSSI Savings (January - December 2021) 1 % of GDP1 USD millions)1 % of GDP USD millions) 1 Estimated debt-service payments owed to all official bilateral creditors as per the World Bank Debtor Reporting System (DRS) and International Debt Statistics definitions and classifications . Estimates are derived from annual IDS projections based on end-2020 external public and publicly guaranteed debt outstanding and disbursed. Data for South Sudan, Micronesia, Tuvalu, Kiribati, and Marshall Islands are not available. GDP data based on WDI. The full IDS database is available here . 2 Reflects published DSA ratings as of end-December 2021 3 Not covered under joint Bank-Fund Debt Sustainability Framework for Low-Income Countries. 4 IDA countries as of FY 20, and Angola 5 Reflects if a country has requested participation in 2020 and 2021. 6 These numbers are preliminary, based upon reports from borrowers to the World Bank’s Debtor Reporting System (DRS). Many DRS reporters have indicated that agreements on deferral had been reached with G-20 and Paris Club creditors but that administrative steps to identify precise amounts deferred were still ongoing, and that data reported were their preliminary estimates. MULTIMEDIA VIDEO Aug 04,2020 How is Suspending Debt Service Payments Helping the Fight against COVID-19? The World Bank Group’s Marcello Estevão answers questions on how the DSSI works and just how effective it has been. How is Suspending Debt Service Payments Helping the Fight against COVID-19? This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×