Belize : Development news, research, data | World Bank Where We Work --> The World Bank In Belize Belize has a unique cultural heritage and is the only English-speaking country in Central America. The country is remarkably diverse ecologically, with extensive natural capital along the coast, including the largest coral reef in the Americas and an extensive mangroves ecosystem. Belize Home Overview Featured Op-ed Closing the Skills Gap to Create More Jobs in the Caribbean Across several Caribbean countries, young people are discovering that academic qualifications, while essential, do not always open the doors they expected. Closing the Skills Gap to Create More Jobs in the Caribbean Report Rethinking Caribbean Tourism : Strategies for a More Sustainable Future This report assesses the current performance of tourism in the Caribbean. Rethinking Caribbean Tourism : Strategies for a More Sustainable Future Feature story 5 Ways Belize Benefits from New IDA Financing In 2024, Belize gained access to concessional financing from the World Bank’s International Development Association (IDA). 5 Ways Belize Benefits from New IDA Financing Belize At-A-Glance A small, upper-middle income country with a population of about 359 000 and a per capita income of US$ 4,906 (current) in 2016, Belize has undergone significant economic transformation over the last two decades, mainly due to the growing tourism industry and to the commercial oil discovery in 2005. Tourism and agriculture are the main sources of income and employment. Tourism represents almost o... Overview Data Data World Development Report The World Bank’s World Development Report, published annually since 1978, is an invaluable guide to the economic, social, and environmental state of the world today. Each report provides in-depth analysis and policy recommendations on a specific and important aspect of development. View Report Blogs View All Blogs View All Blogs Experts --> Susana Cordeiro Guerra Vice President, Latin America and the Caribbean, World Bank Susana Cordeiro Guerra --> Lilia Burunciuc Country Director for Caribbean Countries Lilia Burunciuc --> E. Gail Richardson Operations Manager for Caribbean Countries E. Gail Richardson View All Experts Stay Connected News & Events What's New View All What's New Latest Events View All Events Stay connected, sign up for our: World Bank Group Weekly Updates Email Alerts on country news, projects, and research First Name I agree with the terms of the Privacy Notice and consent to my personal data being processed, to the extent necessary, to subscribe to the selected updates. Please enter a valid email address. Please enter a valid email address. World Bank Group Weekly Updates We’ve just sent you an email. Please check your inbox and confirm your email address. World Bank Group Weekly Updates You are already subscribed to this newsletter. Email Alerts on country news, projects, and research We’ve just sent you an email. Please check your inbox and confirm your email address. Email Alerts on country news, projects, and research You are already subscribed to this newsletter. Work With Us In Belize Jobs Procurement Report Fraud or Corruption Additional Resources Related Country Partnership Strategy Country Office Contacts For general information and inquiries, as well as for project-related issues and complaints. Belizeinfo@worldbankgroup.org This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×