Event | Transparent and Credible Analytics Course Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Transparent and Credible Analytics Course Share * Note: To attend this course, we strongly recommend you also register for the Masterclass on September 29 .* This advanced three-day course equips World Bank staff with practical tools to improve the quality, reproducibility, and impact of analytical work. Participants will learn to write clean, well-structured code, collaborate using GitHub, and manage data securely across the research lifecycle. Staff from across the World Bank Group will share experiences augmenting code through AI and using GitHub for replicable data science support to World Bank projects. This event will be held in person in Washington, DC from September 30 to October 2, 2025. By the end of the three-day course, participants will be better prepared to produce analysis that others can easily understand, run, and build on, supporting reproducible research and open science. The masterclass is suitable for for staff who regularly do data analysis. Intermediate knowledge of either Stata or R is a prerequisite. Overview Organizers DATE: September 30 - October 30, 2025 TIME: 9:00 AM - 5:00 PM (EDT) LOCATION: World Bank HQ | Washington, D.C. FEE: 1500 USD Development Impact Analytics The Development Impact Analytics works to improve the credibility, transparency, and reproducibility of development research across World Bank units, clients, and the global research community. The team supports high quality research across the DECDI portfolio, offers public trainings, and develops open-source tools. WBG Data Academy Data skills are a core World Bank Group asset and are at the heart of our operational work. Led by the Office of the WBG Chief Statistician and aligned with the Bank's Knowledge Compact, the Data Academy was launched in June 2025 as a central platform for staff skills development in data and statistics. Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×