Event | Implementing Nature Based Solutions for Impact: Lessons from Kenya, Malawi, and Zambia Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Implementing Nature Based Solutions for Impact: Lessons from Kenya, Malawi, and Zambia Share Event Details On September 17, 2025, NBS Invest and the Climate Investment Funds’ Nature, People, Climate (CIF-NPC) program hosted a webinar exploring how nature-based solutions (NBS) are being scaled in Kenya, Malawi, and Zambia to address climate, biodiversity, and development challenges. The event brought together practitioners and policymakers to share experiences, lessons, and strategies for implementing NBS. Speakers highlighted the potential of NBS to tackle land degradation, enhance biodiversity, and create green jobs. The perspectives shared emphasized the transformative potential of nature based solutions when supported by strong stakeholder engagement and innovative financing. Key themes included: The need for stronger collaboration across sectors and countries; The urgency of addressing funding gaps to scale restoration efforts, and the importance of mobilizing climate finance, especially from private sources; and The role of NBS in supporting long-term employment and ecosystem services. The webinar reinforced that nature-based solutions are not just a vision—they are a scalable reality with the power to transform communities and landscapes. Speakers: Moderator : Chitembo Kawimbe Chunga, Adaptation Specialist, CIF Opening remarks: Tuukka Castren, Acting Manager, Global Environment Department, World Bank Practitioner presentations/discussion: Tangu Tumeo, Head of Forest Communication and Advisory Services, Ministry of Natural Resources and Climate Change, Government of Malawi Andrew Machora, Manager, Resource Mobilization, National Environment Trust Fund, Kenya Mwasiti Rashid, Programme Manager, Zambezi Watercourse Commission Q&A and Discussion: Tuuli Johanna Bernardini, Senior Environmental Specialist, East Africa Environment Department, World Bank Related : NBS Invest CIF Nature, People, Climate Program GEF Least Developed Countries Fund Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×