Call for proposal: Grants to Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) in support of Indonesia’s first EITI report --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Call for proposal: Grants to Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) in support of Indonesia’s first EITI report December 1, 2012 This page in: English Bahasa Indonesia Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Call for proposal The EITI Multi Donor Trust Fund, through Article 33 Indonesia, invites CSOs in Indonesia to conduct action research and communications activities in relation to the first Indonesian EITI report on transparency of state revenues from the extractive industries. CSOs can submit proposals for grants to support activities to be undertaken over the period of February to June 2013, formatted in MSWord to sekretariat@article33.or.id . Grant proposals must be received by 10 December 2012 before 5:00 pm Western Indonesia Time . For more information, click here RELATED WORLD BANK EXTERNAL Supporting Indonesian CSOs in Contextualizing the EITI in Indonesia Indonesia East Asia Pacific Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.