Boosting Foreign Direct Investment and Supporting Countries in Fragile and Conflict Settings | World Bank Expert Answers Who We Are News Video June 27, 2025 Boosting Foreign Direct Investment and Supporting Countries in Fragile and Conflict Settings | World Bank Expert Answers Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Global growth is projected to slow to 2.3 percent in 2025, nearly half a percentage point lower than the rate that had been expected at the start of the year, according to the World Bank’s latest Global Economic Prospects report . In this episode of Expert Answers, we’ll unpack two special chapters of the report outlining trends that are making development more challenging . The first, dwindling flows of foreign direct investment. The second, the worsening plight of fragile and conflict-affected situations. Ayhan Kose , the World Bank Group’s Deputy Chief Economist and Director of the Prospects Group, joins Expert Answers to discuss the context of these challenges and paths forward. Timestamps 00:00 Welcome 00:37 Foreign direct investment 02:38 Policy recommendations for developing countries 04:25 Fragile and conflict-affected situations 07:02 Hope on the horizon 09:13 Closure Transcript [00:00] - Hello, and welcome to " Expert Answers " with me, Andrea Tapia. Today, we're taking a deep dive into the World Bank Group's Global Economic Prospects Report . We'll unpack two trends that are making development more challenging , the first, dwindling flows of Foreign Direct Investment; the second, rising conflict and instability. We'll seek to understand the context of these challenges and paths forward. All coming up in "Expert Answers." Ayhan Kose is the World Bank Group's Deputy Chief Economist. Ayhan, welcome back to "Expert Answers." - Thank you. [00:37] - Let's get started. As you know, Foreign Direct Investment is a key driver of economic growth and higher living standards. What's happening with FDI flows currently, and why? - As you said, Andrea, FDI is very important when we think about economic development. It basically helps create jobs, facilitate private capital mobilization, of course, helps reduce poverty. When we look at FDI flows in the century, there has been a dramatic sea change. In the 2000s, we saw sharp increase in FDI to developing economies. In fact, at some point, FDI to GDP ratio reached around 5% in mid-2000s, basically. Since then, we have seen a steady decline. In fact, in 2023, when we have the latest good data available, we had the lowest level of FDI flows to developing economies since 2005. When you think about the share of FDI relative to GDP, that number has been hovering around 2%. Now, why did we end up with this outcome? At the global level, we have seen unprecedented geopolitical tensions, unprecedented policy uncertainty, and in the 2000s, we had basically broad-based embrace of globalization, integration, opening up financial markets. That has changed. We have basically more fragmentation, more countries are introducing trade restrictions, and that makes a big difference when you think about cross-border investment flows. And when you look at country-specific reasons, in the 2000s, we had this incredible appetite to basically push new reforms, structural reforms, financial sector reforms, liberalization, labor market reforms. That appetite has waned. With that, the type of improvements we saw in business climates, the pace of those improvements has slowed as well. [02:38] - And so based on this, how can developing countries respond? - Now, the good news is that we had a period of very strong FDI flows. That means we have a kind of a playbook here. What that playbook implies, one, countries have to do certain things to attract FDI; two, they need to do certain things to maximize the benefits of FDI; and three, at the global level, we have to have certain interventions to basically see more FDI going to developing economies. Now, obviously, there is no one-size-fits-all policy, but at the end of the day, at the country level, we need to see reforms to improve business climates. We need to see, basically, human capital improvements, increasing the schooling years, including increasing the quality of education. And labor market reforms are critical, making these countries more business-friendly and, of course, pushing more trade integration and having investment treaties between countries. At the global level as well, we need to find ways to cooperate, rather than fragment the investment flows. As you know, at the World Bank is the largest development bank. We have a wide range of instruments we provide, especially in the context of de-risking, providing insurance against, basically, the political risk. And of course, at the private sector level, our private sector IFC are working extremely hard to basically facilitate FDI into these economies. [04:25] - This addition of the Global Economic Prospects Report also analyzes the impact that conflict and instability is having on 39 affected economies . Why are you discussing this now? - Andrea, when you look around the world, we have a very sharp increase in the number of conflicts. Obviously, some of them are outright wars, and we have a very sharp increase in the number of fatalities associated with conflicts. Nearly half of extreme poor, they live in these economies. Conflict takes this very heavy toll on these economies. Some estimations we have done suggested over a five-year period. Because of conflict, you basically lose 20% of GDP. - And how can the global community best respond to this? - Now, when it comes to fragility and conflict, it is impossible, actually, to solve the problems on the ground without help of the global community. Now, let me basically talk about certain conflict interventions. Number one, obviously, prevention of conflict is critical. Second, these countries have a huge financing gap. That financing gap will require global community to basically help through grants, concessional loans, to address the broader development challenges in the context of health, education, infrastructure, for example. Third, there is a huge need when it comes to capacity building in these economies, facilitating private sector development. There is a huge need when it comes to creating jobs. All of these will require, along with financing, policy advice, technical assistance. And when you think about these economies is the fourth item. They're fragile for a reason. Many of them are subject to a wide range of climate-related shocks. The number of these shocks has been increasing. You look at natural disasters, the number of natural disasters is increasing, cost of natural disasters is increasing. And finally, we have a huge debt challenge in these economies, 70% of them are in debt distress or they have very high risk of falling into debt distress. We need to be more aggressive. We need to accelerate the process of resolution of these debt challenges, so we can make progress when it comes to addressing the underlying debt overhang. [07:02] - And in your view, is there any glimmer of hope? - Yes, there is always glimmer of hope. There were countries, they were basically fragile. There were countries, they were basically fragile conflict states. They made progress. In fact, this study talks about these countries extensively, provides examples. Now, when you look at what happened over the five years, we had this series, a cascade of shocks, and these shocks really hit these economies hard. So, the growth, averaging around 2%. Other developing economies actually grew around 4 1/2%. It's going to take a very long time for them to get back to the pre-pandemic trajectory. Now, where is the big hope? Number one, a huge demographic dividend. These countries are still young. They have basically increasing working age population while the rest of the world is aging. If we can equip these young people with the type of skills that's necessary, if they get the education and become competitive, to basically help the global labor force in terms of the types of skills needed, that will be a basically a huge dividend not just for these economies, but for the global economy. The second important thing, as much as they're fragile, as much as they suffer from conflict, they have incredible natural resources. They have basically the type of minerals necessary, rare earth metals necessary, to basically speed up the energy transition. These types of natural resources will require, of course, careful management, the governance structure, capacity to basically utilize these resources in an intelligent, strategic way, and channel the funds into the type of project that will generate the jobs these countries need. And in all of these, we at the bank, of course, working on the ground through IDA, through MIGA, through IFC, IBRD to help these economies. [09:13] - Thank you so much , Ayhan, for sharing all those insights with us today. - Thank you. - And see you on " Expert Answers " next time. Thanks again to Ayhan Kose , World Bank Group's Deputy Chief Economist and Director of the Prospects Group. And thank you, too, for watching "Expert Answers." If you want to learn more about the issues we have covered today and wider economic forecast, check out the latest edition of the World Bank Group's Global Economic Prospects Report . See you next time. ABOUT WORLD BANK EXPERT ANSWERS Every episode of Expert Answers sits you down with a World Bank specialist: an expert answers with expert answers. From debt relief to gender equality. From COVID-19 response to inclusive growth, and much more. Our goal is to help you understand some of the biggest issues in international development today by asking our colleagues about what works on the ground and what we can do to meet the biggest global challenges. Watch previous episodes of Expert Answers ! ABOUT THE WORLD BANK The World Bank is one of the world’s largest sources of funding and knowledge for low-income countries. Its five institutions share a commitment to reducing poverty, increasing shared prosperity, and promoting sustainable development. RELATED Foreign Direct Investment in Retreat: Policies to Turn the Tide Fragile and Conflict-Affected Situations: Intertwined Crises, Multiple Vulnerabilities Global Economy Faces Trade-Related Headwinds This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×