Guinea Set to Win the Hearts of Investors --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Guinea Set to Win the Hearts of Investors May 31, 2012 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Photo: Arne Hoel/World Bank "Guinea is Back" - A new program of reforms in Guinea Guinea's new government is set to win the hearts of investors to become a preferred destination for investment in Africa. Just last year the new President, Professor Alpha Conde, passed a decree to create the Agency for Promotion of Private Investments (APIP), a one stop shop that aims to improve the country's business environment. The APIP and its one stop shop for business registration opened its doors on December 7, 2011 allowing entrepreneurs to register their businesses in one location, cutting time and cost in the registration process. Since then, with the active support of the World Bank Group's Investment Climate team, a series of other reforms to make it easier to start and operate a business in the country have been passed. Oumar Yasané, CEO of Yanstechnologie, a computer shop, said: "I learned about the one stop shop through the media, so I decided to go and see the APIP. I arrived and was asked for two passport photos, a residence certificate, a photocopy of my ID card and 212 000 GNF. I submitted them and in less than two weeks, I was called to pick up my documents. I was amazed at how quickly my business was created." " I submitted all the requirements and in less than two weeks, I was called to pick up my documents. I was amazed at how quickly my business was created. " Oumar Yasané CEO of Yanstechnologie, a computer shop Developing Guinea's Business Reform Agenda In order to develop the country's business reform agenda, the government drew on experience from international experts and top reformers worldwide and in the region. In January 2012, the Minister of Industry and Small and Medium Enterprises led a delegation from Guinea comprised of public and private sector representatives to Mali to learn from experiences of the eight member states of the West Africa Economic and Monetary Union (UEMOA) and Rwanda, themed: "Sharing Knowledge to Improve the Business Climate." "We are happy to have IFC's technical support for the improvement of investment climate in Guinea, which is a necessary condition for the general economic development of the country, and that of the private sector in particular," said Mrs Rahamatoulaye Bah, Minister of Industry and SMEs. Guinea's Reform Priorities Upon consultation with the private sector, top reformers and the World Bank Group's Investment Climate Department, the government of Guinea prioritized these areas for reform: Starting a Business Getting Electricity Dealing with Construction Permits Registering Property The reform priorities are aimed at rebuilding the country and are a direct response to the strong political willingness to reform Guinea. Results Starting a Business: One Stop Shop was created to facilitate business creation Dealing with Construction Permits: One Stop Shop for construction permits streamlines the process of issuing permits and reduces costs as a result of a decree passed that eliminates two variable portions (15% for each additional square meter above 300 m2 and 30% for each additional floor) of the construction permit fee - now only a fixed amount is paid no matter the surface of the construction. Getting Electricity: (1) Excavation permits are now directly obtained by the electricity company (Electricity de Guinee – EDG). (2) Bank guarantee will now be accepted as deposit, and not only in cash. Registering Property: A one stop shop for construction and property registration has been created to enhance transparency and streamline construction and property controls. Facts and Figures Starting a Business: Total number of businesses created from January to May 15th, 2012: 437 Reduction in the number of days required to create a business from over 40 days to: an average of 3 days Dealing with Construction Permits: Average number of days to obtain a permit is 32 days [from 287 days] Getting Electricity: Procedures for the request for electricity connection and request for excavation permit are now conducted together. The client does not have to follow up with Public Works, saving time and reducing the number of points of contact to access electricity Registering Property : Number of property transfers processed: 121 (January to May 2012) Results Starting a Business: One Stop Shop was created to facilitate business creation Dealing with Construction Permits: One Stop Shop for construction permits streamlines the process of issuing permits and reduces costs as a result of a decree passed that eliminates two variable portions (15% for each additional square meter above 300 m2 and 30% for each additional floor) of the construction permit fee - now only a fixed amount is paid no matter the surface of the construction. Getting Electricity: (1) Excavation permits are now directly obtained by the electricity company (Electricity de Guinee – EDG). (2) Bank guarantee will now be accepted as deposit, and not only in cash. Registering Property: A one stop shop for construction and property registration has been created to enhance transparency and streamline construction and property controls. Facts and Figures Starting a Business: Total number of businesses created from January to May 15th, 2012: 437 Reduction in the number of days required to create a business from over 40 days to: an average of 3 days Dealing with Construction Permits: Average number of days to obtain a permit is 32 days [from 287 days] Getting Electricity: Procedures for the request for electricity connection and request for excavation permit are now conducted together. The client does not have to follow up with Public Works, saving time and reducing the number of points of contact to access electricity Registering Property : Number of property transfers processed: 121 (January to May 2012) Results Starting a Business: One Stop Shop was created to facilitate business creation Dealing with Construction Permits: One Stop Shop for construction permits streamlines the process of issuing permits and reduces costs as a result of a decree passed that eliminates two variable portions (15% for each additional square meter above 300 m2 and 30% for each additional floor) of the construction permit fee - now only a fixed amount is paid no matter the surface of the construction. Getting Electricity: (1) Excavation permits are now directly obtained by the electricity company (Electricity de Guinee – EDG). (2) Bank guarantee will now be accepted as deposit, and not only in cash. Registering Property: A one stop shop for construction and property registration has been created to enhance transparency and streamline construction and property controls. Facts and Figures Starting a Business: Total number of businesses created from January to May 15th, 2012: 437 Reduction in the number of days required to create a business from over 40 days to: an average of 3 days Dealing with Construction Permits: Average number of days to obtain a permit is 32 days [from 287 days] Getting Electricity: Procedures for the request for electricity connection and request for excavation permit are now conducted together. The client does not have to follow up with Public Works, saving time and reducing the number of points of contact to access electricity Registering Property : Number of property transfers processed: 121 (January to May 2012) Guinea Home Trade Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.