CSO Program Addresses Key Policy Issues --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY CSO Program Addresses Key Policy Issues November 4, 2014 This page in: English Français العربية Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> The Civil Society Program was held from October 7 – 11, during the 2014 WBG / IMF Annual Meetings. It included an Orientation Session on the WBG, a CSO Roundtable with WBG Executive Directors, a CSO Townhall with the heads of the WBG and IMF which was followed by a CSO Reception. The Civil Society Program also included a Policy Forum comprising 55 dialogue sessions (see schedule ) on a wide range of development topics. Over 800 CSO representatives from more than 80 countries participated in the Civil Society Program, (see system generated list which does not include over 200 event badges issued). These representatives included 61 CSO / Youth Leaders and Academics sponsored by the World Bank and IMF to participate in the Annual Meetings, (see list of sponsored CSOs). The sponsored CSOs were selected from a wide range of institutions and sectors in collaboration with the World Bank and IMF’s country offices. The CSO Roundtable with Executive Directors brought together approximately 150 CSO representatives with a record setting 19 of the 25 Executive Directors. The hour and a half discussion was co-chaired by Danny Sriskandarajah, CEO of Civicus and the Dean of the World Bank’s Board of Executive Directors, Merza Hassan and focused on several topics including the ongoing WBG safeguards review, anti-corruption efforts, and social inclusion for sexual minorities, (see Summary Note ). The CSO Townhall with Jim Kim and Christine Lagarde was attended by approximately 250 CSO representatives and focused on IMF's role in macroeconomic stability, the ongoing WBG safeguards review, and the ebola crisis. (see Summary Note ). The sessions held during the Civil Society Policy Forum also covered a wide range of topics including safeguards, gender equality, and climate change. During the forum, World Bank units also organized approximately 10 sessions and held important briefings and consultations on the safeguards review, citizen’s engagement framework, social accountability, and faith-based dialogue. In addition to the Forum, CSO representatives had the opportunity to participate in flagship Annual Meeting events such as the “Youth Summit”, “Building Shared Prosperity in an Unequal World” and “TEDxWBG: Ending Poverty”. There were also bilateral meetings with Regional Vice Presidents from the Middle East, Latin America, and East Asia Pacific, as well as with other Bank managers. Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.