Event | EGATE: Advancing Regional Integration for E-Commerce in Central Asia Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events EGATE: Advancing Regional Integration for E-Commerce in Central Asia Share Overview Agenda & Speakers Presentation & Photos E-commerce is rapidly transforming global trade, providing Central Asian nations opportunities to overcome geographical constraints, access new markets, and foster inclusive economic growth. The World Bank-supported E-GATE pilot successfully facilitated over $21 million in SME exports, including $16 million within Central Asia, and created an estimated 1,600 to 2,800 new jobs, demonstrating clear momentum for deeper regional digital integration. To promote this agenda, the “Advancing Regional Integration for E-Commerce in Central Asia" conference will be held on June 5, 2025, in Dushanbe, Tajikistan. The event will gather experts to share experiences and explore regional integration mechanisms. The conference will include an E-GATE presentation on program outcomes, followed by a high-level session focused on Central Asia's e-commerce and global trade integration. The agenda will cover critical topics such as logistics for e-commerce and jobs and gender empowerment, featuring experiences from E-GATE participant firms. Additionally, Alibaba will conduct an onboarding presentation and masterclass for new and potential customers. The conference aims to share knowledge, discuss practical solutions, and foster partnerships. This event is a key step towards enhancing regional cooperation, developing supportive policies, and attracting investment to build a resilient and inclusive digital trade ecosystem in Central Asia. The E-GATE Conference is organized by the World Bank, supported by the UK Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO), in collaboration with the Government of Tajikistan and key international and local partners. Key collaborators include Tajik government agencies such as the Agency for Innovation and Digital Technologies, the Communications Service, the Ministry of Industry, the State Unitary Enterprise Pochtai Tojik (Tajik Post), and the State Committee on Investments and State Property Management of the Republic of Tajikistan. Other key local partners include the American Chamber of Commerce in Tajikistan, the National Association of Small and Medium Business of Tajikistan, and the E-commerce Association of Tajikistan. Regional and international partners include the National Agency of Perspective Projects of Uzbekistan, the International Trade Centre (ITC), the University of Central Asia, and private sector leaders like Alibaba. Download the Agenda: in English in Tajik in Russian Download the speakers' bios Download the presentation Download the event photos Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×