Event | Regional Summit on Digital Transformation in Western and Central Africa Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Regional Summit on Digital Transformation in Western and Central Africa Share Overview Participants Agenda Related OBJECTIVES The Regional Summit on Digital Transformation in Western and Central Africa aims to serve as a key moment to take stock of progress towards the African Union’s 2030 digital transformation goals, and to agree on a common Declaration to accelerate reforms and investments in the digital sector that should eventually lead to job creation in the sub-region. It also aims to identify a set of commitments and concrete measures to incentivize private sector investment in the digital sector, and to provide a platform to share good practices and harmonize policies and regulations, aiming at creating regional digital markets. Most specifically, the discussions will focus, among others, on: Closing the Digital Divide and Bringing more people online in West and Central Africa; Developing the necessary AI capabilities in West and Central Africa; and Creating More Digital Jobs in West and Central Africa through Accelerated Digitalization and Digital Single Market. BACKGROUND Digitalization is rapidly reshaping economies and societies, offering a transformative opportunity to accelerate progress toward the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). With only 15% of the 2030 SDG targets achieved to date, digital technologies are emerging as powerful enablers—positively impacting 70% of the goals. Countries with higher levels of digitalization have made 40% more progress toward the SDGs than their peers, underscoring the urgency of investing in digital infrastructure, services, and skills. The digital economy’s network effects not only enhance productivity and public service delivery but also generate vast amounts of data that can be harnessed for innovation and inclusive growth. In the face of compounding global crises, digitalization has proven essential for job creation, resilience, and sustainability. It boosts employment, reduces poverty, and strengthens the competitiveness of firms and SMEs. Yet, whilst coverage gaps remain particularly in rural areas and fragile contexts, a critical challenge to tackle is the usage gap: in Western and Central Africa, internet use is only about 40% of the population with about 70% of the individuals that do not use internet living in areas covered by current infrastructure. Governments have a critical role to play in creating an enabling environment for inclusive and trusted digital transformation, while the private sector brings capital, innovation, and the capacity to scale sustainable digital ecosystems. Bridging the digital divide will require coordinated efforts to boost the number of people, enterprises and government entities online, expand broadband access, promote cross-border digital markets, and invest in AI capabilities and skills development. The Digital Summit will serve as a platform to assess progress, share best practices, and mobilize public and private sector commitments to accelerate digital transformation and foster AI readiness across Western and Central Africa. It will bring together high-level stakeholders to explore how digitalization can drive economic transformation and create the jobs of the future. The summit will convene about 200 high-level and a diverse group of stakeholders, comprising: High-level policy makers, including ministers in charge of digital, and finance from Western and Central Africa. Continental and regional institutions such as the African Union Commission, the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), the Economic and Monetary Community of Central Africa (CEMAC), and the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU). Private sector actors from the digital sector. Global organizations such as the GSM Association, the Smart Africa Alliance; and others. Key development partners. Monday, November 17, 2025 08.00 – 09.00 Welcome and Coffee 09.00 – 09.30 The Master of Ceremonies welcomes participants Introductory Remarks: - H.E. Ms. Aurelie Adam Soulé Zoumarou, Minister of Digitalization, Republic of Benin - Mr. Ousmane Diagana, World Bank Vice-President for Western and Central Africa 09.30 – 09.40 Cultural interlude 09.40 – 09.55 Opening remarks: - H.E. Mr. Abdoulaye Bio Tchané, Senior Minister, in charge of Development and Government Action Coordination, Republic of Benin 09.55-10.00 Video Screening 10.00 – 10.20 Keynote Address: Digital and Artificial Intelligence Progress Report - Mr. Sangbu Kim, Vice President for Digital and Artificial Intelligence, World Bank Group 10.20 – 10.40 10.40 – 11.15 Group photo Coffee break 11.15 – 13.00 PANEL 1: Bridging the Digital Divide to Connect More People in Western and Central Africa Moderator : - Mr. Lacina Koné, CEO of Smart Africa Panelists : - Ms. Rose Pola Pricemou, Minister of Posts, Telecommunications, and Digital Economy, Guinea - Mr. Samuel George, Minister of Communications, Digital Technology and Innovations, Ghana - Ms. Claire Scharwatt, Principal, Digital Policy, Project Kuiper, Amazon - Mr. Serge Ekue, President of the West African Development Bank (BOAD) - Ms. Fatou Kine Diop, Founder of eTontine Other Panelists: - Mr. Sekou M. Kromah, Minister of Posts and Telecommunications, Liberia - Mr. Ian Paterson, CEO, CSquared - Ms. Marie-Chantal Uwanyiligira, Country Director, World Bank - Mr. Adji Ali Salatou, Minister of Communication and ICT, Niger 13.00 – 14.30 Lunch 14:30 – 15:00 Lightning Talk: Potential of Artificial Intelligence in Africa - Mr. Moustapha Cissé, Kera Health 15:00 – 16.45 PANEL 2: Developing the necessary capacities in artificial intelligence for Western and Central Africa Moderator : - Mr. Jeph B. Acheampong, Founder and Director of Blossom Academy Panelists : - Ms. Cina Lawson, Minister of Public Service Efficiency and Digital Transformation, Togo - Dr. Bosun Tijani, Minister of Communications, Digital Economy and Innovations, Nigeria - Ms. Kate Kallot, CEO, Amini - Mr. Sangbu Kim, Vice President for Digital and Artificial Intelligence, World Bank Group - Mr. Mohamed Lamine Barro, CEO, Etudesk Other Panelists: - Mr. Ibrahim Kalil Konaté, Minister of Digital Transition and Digitalization, Côte d'Ivoire - Ms. Dahlia Khalifa, Director for West and Central Africa, International Finance Corporation (IFC), World Bank Group - Ms. Celina Lee, Co-Founder and CEO of Zindi (IA) - Dr. Aminata Zerbo, Minister of Digital Transition, Postal and Electronic Communications, Burkina Faso 17:00 – 18:00 Ministers' Executive Session 19.30 – 22.00 Lunch END OF DAY ONE Tuesday, November 18, 2025 08.30 – 09.00 Welcome and Coffee 09.00 – 10.45 PANEL 3: Creating more jobs in West and Central Africa through accelerated digitalization and the digital single market Moderator : - Ms. Ornella Tchuente, Entrepreneur, Founder of Goddess Agency Panelists : - Mr. Olavo Correia, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance and Digital Economy, Cape Verde. - Mr. Leon Juste Ibombo, Minister of Posts, Telecommunications, and Digital Economy, Republic of Congo. - Mr. Siim Sikkut, Managing Partner, Digital Nation - Mr. Abdoulaye Diop, President of the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) Commission - Ms. Nathalie Kouassi Akon, Director, International Finance Corporation, World Bank Group (IFC) Other Panelists: - Mr. Francial Giscard Libengue Dobele-Kpoka, Commissioner for Infrastructure and Sustainable Development, Central African Economic and Monetary Community (CEMAC) - Mr. Boukar Michel, Minister of Communications, Digital Economy, and Digitalization of Government, Chad - Ms. Salima Monorma Bah, Minister of Communications, Technology and Innovation, Sierra Leone - Ms. Coura Tine Sène, Regional Director, Wave Mobile Money 10.45 – 11.00 Coffee break 11.00 – 11.30 Adoption of the Cotonou Declaration 11.30 – 11.40 Closing Remarks by Mr. Ousmane Diagana, World Bank Vice President for Western and Central Africa 11.40 – 11.50 Cultural interlude 11.50 – 12 :15 Closing of the Summit: - Address by H.E. Ms. Aurelie Adam Soulé Zoumarou, Minister of Digitalization, Republic of Benin - Closing speech by H.E. Mr. Abdoulaye Bio Tchané, Senior Minister, in charge of Development and Government Action Coordination, Republic of Benin 12.15 – 13.30 Lunch END OF THE SUMMIT COTONOU DECLARATION - Accelerating Digital Transformation in Western and Central Africa PRESS RELEASE - Harnessing Digital Potential to Unlock Inclusive Growth and Job Creation WEBSITE - World Bank Digital Economy Initiative for Africa (DE4A) REPORT - Digital Economy for Africa REPORT - Digital Opportunities in African Businesses: Tapping Tech to the Fullest BLOG - Small AI, big impact: Harnessing artificial intelligence for development PUBLICATION - Digital Public Infrastructure and Development: A World Bank Group Approach PUBLICATION - Devising a Strategic Approach to Artificial Intelligence: A Handbook for Policy Makers Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×