GSCP Global Smart City Partnership Program Supporting cities to become 'smart' – efficient, innovative, inclusive, and resilient – using data and technology Home Overview GSCP ENGAGEMENTS Partners Team News & Events Project Maps Featured Technical Support Services We Provide We offer World Bank Group teams and their clients two types of services: just-in-time technical assistance, for engagements of six-month or less, and operational support for longer-term engagements. More About Us Knowledge Sharing Access to Expertise We facilitate networking and knowledge-sharing among smart city experts and cities from around the world. We also identify smart-city experts and connect them with selected World Bank Group teams through an interactive matching process. Networking & Knowledge-Sharing Events Knowledge Products Engagement Briefs Read our latest engagement briefs that capture key lessons on implementing Smart City solutions. Read More Smart Cities & Urban Development The Global Smart City Partnership (GSCP) supports World Bank Group project teams and governments to leverage data and technology to integrate urban infrastructure and service delivery and provide solutions to achieve a citizen-centric approach. Global Smart City Solutions Catalog 2024 The Smart City catalog provides good practices to those interested in understanding the process of smart city development and adopting relevant strategies and solutions. The catalog aims to be a practical guide for planning effective smart city implementation. Phase 2 Completion Report Achievements, Innovations, and Prospects As of 2023, GSCP2 has backed 22 projects, predominantly in the urban and transport sectors, with Africa holding the most significant share at 32%. This phase has successfully bridged strategic planning and investment design in smart city development. SMART CITY TOP Agenda 2023 Smart Journeys of Developing Cities The chapter on “Smart Journeys of Developing Cities: Key takeaway from the World Bank’s smart city engagement," on page 106, is written by GPURL Global Director Bernice Van K. Bronkhorst and GSCP Lead Narae Choi. Phase 1 Completion Report A Foundation for Stimulating Smart Urban Transformations Phase 1 Completion Report -- Read about our progress toward building a solid foundation for smart urban evolution. We aim to nurture cities’ unique potential to address urgent challenges, such as COVID-19 and climate change. WORLDWIDE click Korea as a Pioneer and Promoter of Smart Cities click Smart and Sustainable Cities - The Netherlands Supported By GSCP is financed by the Republic of Korea's Ministry of Land, Infrastructure & Transport (MOLIT), Korea-World Bank Group Partnership Facility, Korea Green Growth Trust Fund, Quality Infrastructure Investment Partnership, and Cybersecurity Multi-donor Trust Fund. Contact Us GSCP@worldbank.org Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->