The California Seafloor and Coastal Mapping Program benefits from shared data - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Back to maritime , updates The California Seafloor and Coastal Mapping Program benefits from shared data By Marin Kress · August 15, 2017 The California Seafloor and Coastal Mapping Program has brought together federal, state, and local stakeholders to develop and share an extensive variety of seafloor-mapping datasets. This collaborative effort that brought together bathymetric (seafloor), geologic, and biological data relevant to California’s State Waters was recently described in a scientific article by Johnson et al. (2017) in the journal Ocean & Coastal Management. But there is more to the story than just mapping, the spatial information captured through this multi-year effort will help update nautical charts relevant to the marine transportation system, improve earthquake and tsunami hazard assessments, improve understanding of erosion and shoreline change processes, and be used to make decisions that support healthy marine ecosystems and fisheries. One map can serve many purposes, for example, geological maps made from seismic-reflection data of the seafloor can identify fault lines that are used in forecasting earthquake impacts, but also show where san deposits exist that can be used for beach nourishment (Johnston et al. (2017)). Geological mapping is also used to understand the risk of saltwater intrusion into freshwater aquifers that sit in coastal areas, a problem that exists in multiple parts of the U.S. Maps from this effort are available for download at no cost through the U.S. Geological Survey website . Users who want to create their own maps can explore bathymetric and coastal zone data for California on Data.Gov, including the example datasets listed below. Links to Data.Gov datasets USGS Map service: National Shoreline Change – Historic Shorelines by State: https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/usgs-map-service-national-shoreline-change-historic-shorelines-by-state4a6c3 USGS Map service: National Shoreline Change – Offshore Baseline: https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/usgs-map-service-national-shoreline-change-offshore-baseline01dc6 USGS 2010 Topographic Lidar of the Channel Islands, California: https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/2010-u-s-geological-survey-usgs-topographic-lidar-channel-islands-california78b1a USGS Bathymetry–Offshore of Carpinteria, California: https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/bathymetry-offshore-of-carpinteria-californiaf4193 California 2010 Lidar Coverage, USACE National Coastal Mapping Program: https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/california-2010-lidar-coverage-usace-national-coastal-mapping-program USGS: A seamless, high-resolution, coastal digital elevation model (DEM) for Southern California. https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/a-seamless-high-resolution-coastal-digital-elevation-model-dem-for-southern-californiaf1e9e Reference : Johnson, S.Y., G.R. Cochrane, N.E. Golden, P. Dartnell, S.R. Hartwell, S.A.Cochran, and J.T. Watt. 2017. The California Seafloor and Coastal Mapping Program – Providing science and geospatial data for California’s State Waters. Ocean & Coastal Management . 140, pages 88-104. Detailed Geology and Geomorphology, Hueneme Canyon, California. U.S. Geological Survey. Full size at: https://pubs.usgs.gov/sim/3225/sim3225\_sheet11.pdf By Marin Kress, Research Scientist, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov