MDTF Status Update --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY MDTF Status Update February 10, 2016 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> World Bank Latest Jobs MDTF Update: here are some details: Allocations: Notional and going forward As indicated in our September meeting, our allocations before Round 2 amounted to $29.5m (this encompasses Round 1, Lets Work, Research Window, Global Goods, Program Management, and World Bank admin costs). Contributions Received as of end January amount to $29 mln Disbursements as of end January amounted to $2.3 mln Commitments/Contracts as of end January amounted to $3.4 mln Deliverables: We just issued the first request at the end of January for progress reporting. This will feed into the Annual Report due May 2016. While the progress reporting is underway, we’d like to share with you two deliverables recently completed: Toward Solutions for Youth Employment: A 2015 Baseline Report : Launched in Oct 2015, this report discusses the existing youth employment challenge and notes that for the first time, we have proven interventions that show impact, and can be used to better inform policy decisions. The report was widely disseminated online, and generated some media interest, including this interview . A Workshop on Measuring Violent Conflict in Micro-Level Surveys delivered from 23-27 November, 2015, encompassing the Conflict Exposure Module (CEM). The CEM was developed under the LSMS-ISA project in coordination with the International Security and Development Center (ISDC) and has been published on the LSMS-ISA website as a sourcebook. The training was designed to promote the use of the CEM among in order to improve the quality of survey data about the effects of violent conflict exposure, enhance the overall understanding of socioeconomic change, and inform policy making. Participants sponsored by the project included representatives from the national statistical institutes of Bhutan, Burkina Faso, Colombia, Malawi, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, and Uganda. In addition, there were participants from FAO, UN Economic and Social Commission for Western Africa, and the London School of Economics. The trainers were from ISDC, Institute of Development Studies, the Université Libre de Bruxelles, and the World Bank. Let’s Work : The Let’s Work program is currently being implemented all 7 countries, with specific joint activities and pilots underway, for example, working to overcome coordination failures and ensure quality standings in linking vulnerable farmers and small entrepreneurs to formal value chains and increasing earnings in Mozambique. This pilot will be accompanied with an impact evaluation to draw lessons in order to learn and improve. The second pilot will partner with IYF to promote entrepreneurship among women and create jobs for vulnerable women in the informal sector, also accompanied with an impact evaluation. The Let’s Work Partnership will host a joint conference on jobs at the end of March with the Government of Mozambique and the ILO. Titled “More, Better, Inclusive Jobs: Stimulating Private Sector Led Job Growth in Mozambique,” the one day Conference aims to inform policy dialogue on jobs with stakeholders. Findings of a Jobs Diagnostic and ongoing Value Chain Analysis for the key sectors of agribusiness, forestry, and construction, will be shared at the conference, along with key lessons from international experience. The aim is to begin the process of defining a jobs strategy that supports the Government’s five-year plan (“ Plano Quinquenal do Governo” PQG, 2015-2019 ). MDTF Second Round of Proposals: We were pleased receive 140 applications, for $67 million, with strong interest in all four priority areas. The announcement asked for Expressions of Interest (EOIs) in Pilots as well as for Deepening Job Impacts of existing projects. For the Pilots, we anticipate selection by mid-Feb. For EOIs on Deepening Jobs Impacts of existing projects we will have a second, more detailed technical review by mid-March. RELATED WORLD BANK EXTERNAL Let's Work Partnership Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.