Powering Africa’s Future with Climate-Smart Innovation Who We Are News This page in: English Français This page in: English Français OPINION December 5, 2024 Powering Africa’s Future with Climate-Smart Innovation Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Originally published on December 5, 2024, on Global Cause/Media Planet distributed in the New Scientist. ------ By: Wendy Hughes , World Bank, Regional Director for Infrastructure in Eastern and Southern Africa Franz Drees-Gross , World Bank, Regional Director for Infrastructure in Western and Central Africa Valerie Levkov , International Finance Corporation, Global Industry Director for Energy, Metals & Mining, and Sustainable Infrastructure Sarvesh Suri , IFC, Regional Industry Director for Infrastructure and Natural Resources in Africa ------ As global leaders gather at COP29 in Baku, a priority for Africa is clear: accelerating access to reliable and sustainable electricity. Today, nearly one in two people in Africa lack access to electricity. Without affordable and sustainable power, Africa will not reach its development aspirations, or the economic transformation needed for a world free of poverty on a livable planet. An Ambitious Partnership to Electrify Africa To address this urgent need, the World Bank Group and the African Development Bank have launched “Mission 300,” aiming to connect 300 million Africans to electricity by 2030. About half of this goal will be achieved cost-effectively through grid connections, with the other half delivered via private sector-led distributed renewable energy (DRE) like mini-grids and solar home systems. DRE has proven affordable and effective in expanding energy access and greening the sector in Africa, with examples like Kenya doubling electricity access through private investments in distributed renewables. In Cote d’Ivoire, electricity access more than doubled from 34% in 2013 to over 70% in 2022, driven by large-scale grid investments and innovations such as a social bond for electricity connections. Accelerating sustainable energy access Together with partners, the World Bank Group is accelerating progress with Mission 300. For instance, a regional program in Eastern and Southern Africa is advancing sustainable and clean energy access for 100 million people across 20 countries - starting with Burundi, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Somalia, and Tanzania. Today, nearly one in two people in Africa lack access to electricity. In remote and rural areas, mini-grids and standalone solar solutions will play a critical role. Nigeria is stepping up its ambition to provide access to clean and efficient electricity to 17.5 million people using DRE solutions while replacing over 250,000 polluting and expensive diesel generators. Success Hinges on Private Sector Innovation Private sector collaboration is essential to rapidly deploy DRE solutions, reaching underserved communities with cost-effective and clean energy. To attract private investments, the International Finance Corporation (IFC), Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) and the World Bank are piloting a new equity vehicle with integrated de-risking guarantees. Reforms to Strengthen Africa’s Power Sector As part of Mission 300, governments are taking on critical reforms to expand affordable energy, promote regional integration, scale-up DRE, leverage private investment, and strengthen power utilities. The success of Mission 300 hinges on advancing reforms, mobilizing private sector investment, fostering partnerships, and blending innovation with scalable solutions. Join us on the mission to power up Africa! Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×