Ecosystem Vulnerability Data - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Back to climate , updates Ecosystem Vulnerability Data August 24, 2015 Ecosystems are essential to the survival of species and their habitats. They provide life-sustaining services to humans by supplying clean water, food, and other natural resources. The productivity of these ecosystems is being impacted by climate change, threatening the livelihood of those that rely on them. Therefore it has become increasingly important to establish adaptation strategies and improve the resiliency of global ecosystems. Here you can discover and access data, information, and decision tools describing and analyzing ecosystem vulnerability to climate change. The resources address the impacts of climate variability and change on water resources, wildfires, biodiversity, the prevalence of invasive species, and the ability of ecosystems to sequester carbon. You may also access the framing questions used to select the data and content available for this theme. Use the Data.gov data search portal to locate all Ecosystem Vulnerability datasets . For more information, explore the Climate Resilience Toolkit topic area for Ecosystems . About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov