Driving climate action with open data: visual stories and impactful reuse cases | DEU Dashboard Skip to main content Log in Log in English Select your language Close Official EU languages: en English bg Български es español cs čeština da dansk de Deutsch et eesti el ελληνικά fr français ga Gaeilge hr hrvatski it italiano lt lietuvių lv latviešu hu magyar mt Malti nl Nederlands pl polski pt português ro română sk slovenčina sl slovenščina fi suomi sv svenska European data data.europa.eu The official portal for European data Menu Close Menu Back Previous items Next items Home Data Quick search SPARQL Search API Search Metadata quality Data in figures High-Value Datasets search High-value dataset dashboard European Register for Protected Data European Legal Data Space Public Procurement Data Space Licensing Assistant See all Academy Open data maturity 2024 ODM in Europe Recommendations Dimensions Method and resources Country profiles Previous editions See all Community Apps Podcasts Collaboration channel Events EU Open Data Days Contact us See all Publications Overview Open data maturity Data stories News and Highlights Newsletter Studies Country insights See all Documentation About us Home … Community Collaboration channel Data reusers Academy webinars Driving climate action with open data: visual stories and impactful reuse cases Driving climate action with open data: visual stories and impactful reuse cases Submitted by Hannah KROKER on Thu, 10/23/2025 - 11:48 Topic: Academy webinars Are you looking forward to our webinar on open data and climate change on Friday, 7 November 2025, from 10:00 to 11:00 CET? Climate change and data are deeply intertwined, with the latter being one of the most important tools to advocate for climate action. To find out more about the value of open data in this context, we have invited two data specialists in our upcoming webinar. First, we will hear from Renato Malaccorto , research director at the Open Data Charter , about reusing and publicising climate data to benefit the broader public. This will be followed by a deep dive into how data visualisations can evoke emotions in order to make climate change feel more tangible and emphasise its urgency, presented by Karim Douieb , data scientist and co-founder of Jetpack.AI . Excited to discuss this pressing issue? Brimming with ideas? Get the conversation started in the comments below and be the first to pose some questions to our experts! Login using your EU login account to share your thoughts in the comment section down below. Fergal MARRINAN Fergal MARRINAN Log in to request contact details Friday 07/11/2025 - 11:32 Share comment #98 Thank you to Renato and Karim in particular for this morning's session. Could the materials / recording be shared? Edited on: 07/11/2025 - 11:44 Flora KOPELOU Flora KOPELOU Log in to request contact details Friday 07/11/2025 - 12:00 In reply to Thank you to Renato and… by Fergal MARRINAN Share comment #99 Thank you for your kind feedback! We’ll make sure to share it with today’s speakers. Regarding the materials and recording, you’ll receive them within a week via a recap email and they will also be uploaded to the data.europa academy. Feel free to share with us what your favourite point of the discussion was! 🙂 Edited on: 07/11/2025 - 12:01 This website is managed by the Publications Office of the European Union Contact us Contact the European Data Portal team Subscribe to our newsletter Follow us on X/Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Youtube Legal Legal notice Cookies Accessibility About us Our mission, vision and values Publications Office newsletter Other services EU law EU tenders EU research results EU Whoiswho EU Publications Discover more on europa.eu Contact the EU Call us 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 Use other telephone options Write us via our contact form Meet us at one of the EU centres Social media Search for EU social media channels EU institutions Search all EU institutions and bodies Close