Event | OneSouthAsia, Good Neighbors in South Asia, India, Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Good Neighbors in South Asia: Partnerships for Progress Share Overview Speakers THIS EVENT WILL BE STREAMED HERE LIVE! READ OUR LATEST GOOD NEIGHBOURS 2: CONNECTING FOR AN EMPOWERED SOUTH ASIA South Asia is at a pivotal moment, with regional economic linkages seen as vital for navigating global uncertainties. The region is among the least integrated globally, with an annual intraregional trade gap estimated at over $44 billion. Strengthening regional connections can help attract private investment, create business opportunities and jobs, and boost domestic economic growth. Besides economic connectivity, the region, which is home to nearly a quarter of the global population, has a shared history and strong socio-cultural linkages among its people. Oftentimes, the ties that bind the countries of South Asia are underappreciated and are lesser known. The 22 nd OneSouthAsia Conversation will highlight stories of neighborly cooperation, where countries have worked together to build a stronger future. For instance, a unique space partnership between India and Bhutan, where both countries collaborated on the development of a small satellite for Bhutan, and finalized a plan for further space cooperation. There are examples of a South Asian Symphony Orchestra and South Asian Band Festival that promote regional harmony through music or of flood cooperation or of community-based early warning system that are helping vulnerable communities across India and Nepal build resilience by providing timely flood alert. This conversation builds on our Good Neighbours series, which documents and showcases successful cross-border stories that promote understanding, trust, and people-to-people contacts. The first compendium was released in May 2023, and the second series will be released soon. LEARN MORE: ONESOUTHASIA WEBSITE ABOUT SEHER Kasturi Chellaraja Wilson Panelist Chief Operating Officer, 5hour International Corporation Kasturi Chellaraja Wilson is a Sri Lankan businesswoman and South Asia Region Champion for the World Bank. Currently she is chief operating officer of 5hour International Corporation. She holds positions as a non-executive director at Capital Alliance Holdings Limited and NDB Bank PLC and is on the board of the Ceylon Chambers of Commerce. She made history in 2020 as the first female group CEO of a listed conglomerate in Sri Lanka, following her appointment as group CEO of Hemas Holdings. Sanjeev Bhargava Panelist Founder, SEHER Sanjeev Bhargava is the founder of SEHER, which was started in 1991 to bring about a new dawn of immersive and experiential cultural thematic events outside the commercial pay walls and making such experiences accessible to all coming from various stratas. SEHER was also instrumental in organizing many regional and cultural events including Udaipur World Music Festival, Jaipur Jazz and Blues Festival, ASEAN India music festival, ASEAN India artist camps, South Asia Bands Festival, SAARC Cultural festival in 2006/2007.Seher has worked on landmark occasions with Rashtrapati Bhawan for conceptualization and production for the special banquet for the president of india in november 2010 as well as in 2015 IN in honor of US President Barack Obama and his entourage. Sujeev Shakya Panelist Convenor, Himalayan Future Forum Sujeev Shakya is CEO of Beed Management, Nepal based international management consulting firm working in Asia and Africa. He Chairs the Nepal Economic Forum and is the convenor of the Himalayan Future Forum. He is also Senior Advisor Bhutan and Nepal for Bower Group Asia, an Indo Pacific strategic consulting firm. A Hubert H Humphrey Fellow, he is currently Non Resident Senior Fellow at National University of Singapore – Institute for South Asia Studies. He has been writing columns for 25 plus years and authored six books including Unleashing Nepal and Unleashing the Vajra by Penguin India. Veena Sikri Convenor, South Asia Women’s Network Veena Sikri’s career and experience straddle the worlds of academia and diplomacy. She has served for 37 years as a career diplomat with the Indian Foreign Service, including as High Commissioner to Bangladesh (2003-06) and to Malaysia (2000-03), as Consul General in Hong Kong (1996-2000), and Director General of the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR), New Delhi (1989-92). After retiring from the Indian Foreign Service, Ms Sikri joined academia as Professor and is also the Founding Trustee and Convener of the South Asia Women’s Network (SWAN). Event Details Date: July 29, 2025 Time: 08:00 AM - 09:00 AM ET Virtual: The 22 nd OneSouthAsia Conversation will highlight stories of neighborly cooperation, where countries have worked together to build a stronger future. Event Contact: Pawan Bali, External Affairs, South Asia Region pbali@worldbankgroup.org Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×