Human Health Tools - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Human Health Tools By Data.gov admins · February 26, 2014 A range of tools are available to help analyze and assess the impacts of climate change on public health. These tools provide users with convenient access to data, common data transformation utilities, analysis methods for data and related information, and other functionalities. General Resources Assessing Health Vulnerability to Climate Change: A Guide for Health Departments: This document provides a suggested sequence of steps that health departments can undertake to assess health vulnerabilities associated with climate change. Integrated Climate and Land-Use Scenarios (ICLUS): An EPA project that produced projections of population and land-use based on scenarios from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Medical Vulnerability Index – Florida: MedVi is an index that describes medical vulnerability to disasters using social-economic factors combined with health factors. Vermont Tick Tracker: The Vermont Tick Tracker is used to share information about where and what kind of ticks have been found. Dialysis Facility Comparison: Datasets with information for comparing the quality of care at dialysis facilities across in the U.S. HURREVAC: HURREVAC (short for Hurricane Evacuation) is a storm tracking and decision support tool of the National Hurricane Program, administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE), and the NOAA National Hurricane Center. Note that in order to qualify for HURREVAC use, you must be an active member of the government emergency management community. Advanced Hydrologic Prediction Service (AHPS): Individuals and communities consult this comprehensive suite of graphical forecast products to anticipate and plan for potential flooding or drought. Foodborne Diseases Active Surveillance Network (FoodNet): FoodNet conducts surveillance for Campylobacter, Cyclospora, Listeria, Salmonella, Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC) O157 and non-O157, Shigella, Vibrio, and Yersinia infections diagnosed by laboratory testing of samples from patients. NCHS Vital Statistics Online Data Portal: Provides online access to birth and perinatal (fetal and infant death) data files as well as tools to interactively examine the data. About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov