MENA Economic Monitor, April 2016: Reconstruction for Peace in Syria --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work Home publication publication MENA Economic Monitor, April 2016: Reconstruction for Peace in Syria This page in: English Français العربية Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Volodymyr Borodin l Shutterstock.com The short-term economic outlook for the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region has not fundamentally changed and remains “cautiously pessimistic,” as described in the January 2016 MENA Quarterly Economic Brief. The new issue of the MENA Economic Monitor predicts that regional GDP growth will average 3% for 2016. Due to a combination of civil wars and refugee inflows, terrorist attacks, cheap oil, and a subdued global economic recovery, prospects for faster growth are slim. However, the report argues that if the recent truce in Syria and the ongoing peace talks in Yemen and Libya materialize - in turn reducing the spread of insecurity and conflict elsewhere in the region – economic growth in MENA could improve over the forecast period (2017 and 2018). DOWNLOAD: Full report Economic Prospects for: Algeria , Djibouti , Egypt , GCC , Iraq , Iran , Jordan , Lebanon , Libya , Morocco , Palestine , Syria , Tunisia , Yemen . Download Full Report RELATED PRESS RELEASE Syria: Reconstruction Could Foster Peace EVENT Boosting MENA's Economy through Peace & Reconstruction Algeria Home Fragility, Conflict and Violence Djibouti Egypt Gulf Cooperation Council Iran Iraq Jordan Lebanon Libya Morocco Syria Tunisia West Bank and Gaza Yemen View More + --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.