Event | Digital Solutions for Climate-Smart Cities Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Digital Solutions for Climate-Smart Cities: The Law and Climate Change Toolkit Share Overview How can urban legal practitioners use the power of law to influence cities’ sustainable mobility choices? How can law incentivize the use of renewable energy sournces and efficient design and construction practices? What role can urban legal practitioners play to support underprivileged communities? Effective legal frameworks are essential in shaping urban development. Urban law plays a key role in directing spatial planning and design toward low carbon, climate resilient solutions, ensuring that urban growth aligns with environmental and social objectives. The Urban Law Module of the Law and Climate Change Toolkit is a cutting-edge digital legal assessment tool developed by UN-Habitat in collaboration with UNEP, UNFCCC, and the Commonwealth Secretariat. Designed to strengthen climate resilience, this tool has supported national and local governments in over ten countries to accelerate climate change adaptation and mitigation efforts, advancing SDG goals 11, 13 and 16. To further build capacity, UN-Habitat has also developed a complementary e-learning course on advancing climate action through urban law, equipping development stakeholders with the knowledge to drive low carbon urban development. This event will feature a discussion on these tools and highlight real-world case studies especially from Malawi and Zimbabwe demonstrating their positive impact. Speakers: Shamiso Mitsi , Deputy Director, Zimbabwe Environmental Law Association Samuel Njuguna , Associate Programme Management Officer, UN-Habitat Zione Ntaba , High Court Judge, Malawi Judiciary (Zomba Division) Ana Paula Pimentel Walker , Associate Professor, Urban and Regional Planning Legal Officer, University of Michigan Moderator: Loren Atkins , Counsel, World Bank Group Resources: Database: Law and Climate Change Toolkit Publication: Urban Law Module of the Law and Climate Change Toolkit Publication: Assessment of Malawi Legislation through the Urban Law Module of the Law and Climate Change Toolkit Publication: Assessment of Zimbabwe Legislation through the Urban Law Module of the Law and Climate Change Publication: Multi-Level Governance for Effective Urban Climate Action in the Global South E-Learning: Advancing Climate Action through Urban Law Return to the main LJD Week event website here . Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×