Cross-Cutting Issues: Disability Knowledge for Change Cross-Cutting Issues: Disability Email Print Tweet Share Share LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> A large and growing number of people in developing countries experience a disability, which disproportionately affects vulnerable populations. Persons with disabilities are more likely to experience adverse socioeconomic outcomes than persons without disabilities, such as less education, poorer health outcomes, lower levels of employment, and higher poverty rates. How are these individuals impacted in the development process, and how can development be more disability inclusive? There are still big knowledge gaps to fill. Working Papers The Whys of Social Exclusion: Insights from Behavioral Economics (2017) All over the world, people are prevented from participating fully in society through mechanisms that go beyond the structural and institutional barriers identified by rational choice theory. This essay discusses four additional mechanisms that bounded rationality can explain. Improving Mental Well-Being and Productivity of Small-Medium Entrepreneurs in Fragile, Conflict and Violence Affected Areas: Can Cognitive Behavioral Therapy Trainings Help? (2018) This literature review summarizes the link between psychological well-being and entrepreneurial outcomes for small and medium-size enterprises in fragile, conflict, and violence–affected contexts. It identifies potentially promising, scalable psychosocial training interventions that can be adapted and implemented to improve psychological health at the individual level, which could lead to better business performance at the firm level. Antidiscrimination Law and Shared Prosperity: An Analysis of the Legal Framework of Six Economies and Their Impact on the Equality of Opportunities of Ethnic, Religious, and Sexual Minorities (2017) This paper looks at the structural marginalization of ethnic, religious, and sexual minorities in six pilot economies (Bulgaria, Mexico, Morocco, the Netherlands, Tanzania, and Vietnam) and proposes a new methodology for collecting cross-country comparable data on antidiscrimination legal frameworks. More Working Papers » Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->