The Serbian State and its Enterprises: The Tail is Still Wagging the Dog --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News OPINION The Serbian State and its Enterprises: The Tail is Still Wagging the Dog February 28, 2017 This page in: English Русский Српски Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Tony Verheijen B92 Blog Illustration: Paul Winward / Shutterstock I noted in a recent public announcement that the Serbian government is, once again, making an effort to put in place Directors of public enterprises through an open competition. This is a laudable effort, as creating professional management is a critical aspect of the modernization of these important public assets. It is also overdue - as many of the current directors have served in an ‘acting’ capacity for many years, well over the term limits of acting managers set out in legislation. In my previous blog I pointed out how critical it is for the state to set a good example when it comes to introducing more merit-based recruitment in Serbia and how this process, if run well, can be a good step in this direction - setting the tone for other recruitment processes inside these same companies. Since a company like EPS (Serbian power utility) is still the single largest employer in Serbia, the power of this company in setting such a positive example is hard to overstate. However, while open competition for recruiting Directors of public enterprises is a positive step, there are other aspects of the governance of public enterprises where recent developments give cause for concern. One notable element is the behavior of their Boards. Boards of public and state-owned enterprises are expected to follow the direction of their (main) shareholder - in this case the state - when it comes to setting a strategy. However, Boards and Management of public and state-owned enterprises are also expected to have a significant degree of autonomy when it comes to day-to-day operational decisions, in which the state should, in theory, not interfere. These principles were defined and put in place in many OECD countries in the 1980s, as part of the so called ‘New Public Management’ reforms. This was done in response to the perception that direct political interference in the management of these organizations was damaging to their performance, and one of the main reasons for these entities to run-up significant losses. The governance architecture for public and state-owned enterprises that is in place in Serbia reflects these principles. However, there are frequent and disturbing cases of Boards disregarding - or even openly acting against - the strategic direction provided by their owner, the state. This is not only bad practice, it can potentially do serious damage to the interests of the owner, which, ultimately, are Serbia’s citizens. One recent example is the decision by the Board of Postanska Banka to blatantly disregard strategic direction provided by the Ministry of Finance on the design of Postanska’s future strategy. The Board decided, without providing adequate reasons, to cancel a procurement process to recruit advisory services on the definition of its corporate strategy, ostensibly because the Board did not like the strategic direction set by its owner. In no private sector environment would such a decision be tolerated by the owner. It also imperils critical commitments the government has made towards IFIs and foreign investors. This follows previous cases in the financial sector, including one with the Deposit Insurance Agency, where strategic instructions by the Ministry of Finance were either (partially) disregarded or ignored. Boards have also spectacularly failed to implement state policy in other cases, like in RTB Bor and Resavica. In the case of public pharmacies, Boards overseeing clusters of pharmacies failed to act when some public pharmacies (the one in Pancevo being the best known) ran up debts and arrears of close to Euro 10 million, showing that Boards even fail on rudimentary oversight and accountability issues. One can only speculate why Boards have acted (or failed to act) in this way, but it is clear that their actions and attitude do not serve the public interest. The World Bank Group, and in particular the International Finance Corporation, are supporting the professionalization of corporate governance in Serbia, including for state-owned and public enterprises. This includes putting in place a certification procedure that would confirm (through a written exam) knowledge of Corporate Governance and be a prerequisite for appointing Board member (and management). There will be one authority empowered by law to issue these certificates and several providers of the training curricula. However, while these efforts are a step in the right direction, their impact will remain limited as long as Boards do not respect the first and most important principle of corporate governance: in matters of strategic importance, Boards need to implement the directions given by the enterprises’ owner - in this case, the state. RELATED BLOG B92 Blog: The tail is still wagging the dog (Serbian) Feb 27, 2017 ABOUT Tony Verheijen Serbia Europe and Central Asia Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.