Kerala Road Safety Authority (KRSA) and World Bank Group Organize a Hackathon on Road Safety --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Kerala Road Safety Authority (KRSA) and World Bank Group Organize a Hackathon on Road Safety August 18, 2015 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Photo Credit: Kerala Road Safety Authority TRIVANDRUM, August 17, 2015 – The Kerala Road Safety Authority (KRSA) and the Department of Information Technology of the Kerala Government, together with the World Bank Group, are organizing the first-ever hackathon on road safety in India. Participants at the 36-hour non-stop event will be given 24 hours to build working technology and create solutions for promoting road safety. The hackathon expects developers to either create software or hardware-based programs or applications that will help improve road safety in four critical segments - the 4 Es’ of road safety: Engineering, Enforcement, Education and Emergency care or post-crash management. To help them in their effort, the developers will be given access to various data sets including the latest road crash data from KRSA, road safety baseline data and road user perception survey report from KSTP. The two-day event will be held on 22 and 23 August, 2015 at the Park Center, Technopark in Trivandrum. Nearly 150 - 200 developers, designers, entrepreneurs and students from all over India are expected to participate. Winners will be awarded attractive cash prizes. Additionally, the winning ideas/ products or solutions will have a chance to be considered for further development and incubation by the Kerala Road Safety Authority. As a precursor to the event, KRSA and World Bank jointly organized a brainstorming session with the stakeholders for consolidating ideas and defining problems. Senior officials from Police, PWD, MVD, Health and Education as well as representatives of media and NGOs were present at the brainstorming. Ideas and problem definitions that gained maximum scores were posted in the hackathon website as examples for the developers. A pre-hackathon virtual session will be hosted on 19th August 6.30pm. (IST) via WebEx. All developers, designers and entrepreneurs are invited to join the session. Hackathon organizers will propose the hackathon challenge, introduce various data sets available and answer any questions. Road safety is the core objective of the World Bank supported Kerala State Transport Project II. Under the project, Kerala Public Works Department and KRSA have initiated several programs to bring down the number of road traffic accidents in the State. The hackathon will encourage young people to come up with new solutions. The event is being held in association with AXA Insurance. AngelHack, supported by GTech, will conduct the event. Join the pre-hackathon virtual session on 19th August at 6.30pm IST. The KRSA and World Bank jointly organized a brainstorming session on the 1st week of July in Trivandrum with stakeholders to consolidate ideas and problem definitions to be presented to the developers at hackathon RELATED WORLD BANK World Bank in India Event: Kerala Road Safety Hackathon Road Safety is Jumping too Many Red Lights Interview: ‘Poor engineering, low fines, chalta hai attitude cause accidents’ In India, a Hackathon to Promote #SafeRoads and #SaveLives EXTERNAL World Bank India on Facebook World Bank India on Twitter India South Asia Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.