Building Resilient Infrastructure: Protecting Access, Connectivity, and Communities Who We Are News This page in: English Français This page in: English Français PRESS RELEASE July 10, 2025 Building Resilient Infrastructure: Protecting Access, Connectivity, and Communities Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina WASHINGTON, July 10, 2025 — Communities in Madagascar that are frequently cut off by natural disasters and climate shocks will soon benefit from stronger, more resilient infrastructure, including roads, bridges, and ports, that protect lives and restore vital access during and after emergencies. These investments are expected to directly and indirectly benefit more than 2 million people across the country. Thanks to $211.5 million in additional financing from the International Development Association (IDA), the Connecting Madagascar for Inclusive Growth Project (PCMCI) will expand its reach to improve connectivity and safeguard key infrastructure against growing climate risks. The funding will also support rapid response to future crises and emergencies. “ Madagascar faces frequent natural disasters that often isolate communities and disrupt essential services” , said Richard Rafidison, Madagascar’s Minister of Public Works . “ The World Bank has been a reliable partner, helping us restore access quickly when it matters most. With this additional financing, we can respond even faster to future emergencies and invest in durable, climate-resilient solutions like modular bridges. Our government is fully committed to building strong, lasting infrastructure that serves both current and future generations. We are grateful for this renewed support, it’s vital for protecting lives and strengthening our resilience.” The additional financing expands the project’s scope with a new component focused on enhancing bridge infrastructure resilience. It will support the rehabilitation and construction of the key bridges, Mahavavy and Ifasy, on national road RN6, and Manambery on RN5a, that were severely damaged by recent cyclones. A core element of this support is the acquisition and deployment of modular bridges in areas highly vulnerable to climate shocks and socio-economic isolation. Modular bridges will also be pre-positioned in reserve to enable rapid emergency response when disasters strike in the future. These investments aim to prevent long-term isolation, maintain essential connectivity, and protect communities during and after extreme weather events. The financing will also provide technical assistance to help the government plan and implement climate-resilient bridge infrastructure more strategically. In addition, it replenishes the resources used under the project’s Contingency Emergency Response Component (CERC), which was activated in April 2024 at the Government’s request to repair cyclone-damaged infrastructure on national roads RN4, RN6, and at the Port of Mahajanga. “ We’ve seen how natural disasters like cyclones and floods can completely cut off communities in Madagascar, disrupting the movement of people and goods, and driving up food prices ,” said Atou Seck, World Bank Country Manager for Madagascar. “By reinforcing key bridges and building a reserve of modular bridges, this additional financing will help the Government respond quickly, restore vital connectivity, and protect vulnerable communities from the growing impacts of climate-related shocks .” Contacts In Madagascar: Dia Styvanley, +261 32 05 001 27, dstyvanley@worldbank.org In Washington: Daniella van Leggelo-Padilla , +1 (202) 473-4989, dvanleggelo@worldbank.org RELATED World Bank in Madagascar Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×