Poverty Overview: Development news, research, data | World Bank Understanding Poverty Topics Poverty --> Poverty The World Bank Group uses the latest data, evidence, and analysis to help countries develop policies to effectively tackle poverty and improve people's lives. Poverty Home Overview Overview Context From 1990 to 2025, the total number of people worldwide living in extreme poverty declined from around 2.3 billion to around 831 million. The sharp decline over this period was largely driven by robust, broad-based economic growth in East Asia and South Asia. Over the last decade, however, global poverty reduction has slowed substantially. This slowdown is due to a combination of interconnected crises, including sluggish economic growth, high levels of debt, the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, conflict and fragility, and severe weather-related shocks. These overlapping crises have hit low-income countries the hardest. At the current pace of progress, it could take decades to eradicate extreme poverty. In 2025, an estimated 831 million people were living in extreme poverty, each trying to survive on less than $3 per day. Extreme poverty has become increasingly concentrated in Sub-Saharan Africa, and places affected by conflict and fragility. Although a necessary condition, economic growth is not enough to break the cycle of poverty. Stronger foundational investments in infrastructure, human capital, and institutions are critical to ensure people can climb the socioeconomic ladder and escape extreme poverty. World Bank Group Response We work with countries to achieve stronger, more broad-based economic growth that creates jobs and opportunities that can lift people out of poverty, while protecting the most vulnerable. To guide policy decisions, we monitor and track progress toward the World Bank Group’s vision of creating a world free of poverty on a livable planet. Our cutting-edge knowledge, data, and analysis help countries identify impactful solutions to reduce poverty and improve people’s lives. We support efforts to boost global coordination, which is essential to closing the financing gap for development and reigniting progress in the fight against poverty. Last Updated: Oct 02, 2025 RELATED Country Poverty and Equity Assessments Poverty & Equity Briefs How Do We Measure Poverty? Inequality and Shared Prosperity Umbrella Facility for Poverty and Equity World Bank Group Academy - Poverty AROUND THE BANK GROUP Find out what the World Bank Group's branches are doing to reduce poverty. International Development Association (IDA) International Finance Corporation (IFC) Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) STAY CONNECTED Facebook Twitter In Depth World Bank Group Academy - Poverty The World Bank Group Academy empowers government officials and private sector leaders to deliver transformative development solutions to reduce poverty. World Bank Group Academy - Poverty Macro Poverty Outlook The twice-annual Macro Poverty Outlook provides country-by-country analysis and poverty projections. Macro Poverty Outlook Umbrella Facility for Poverty and Equity The Umbrella Facility for Poverty and Equity (UFPE) is the first global trust fund to support the cross-cutting poverty and equity agenda. Umbrella Facility for Poverty and Equity IDA: Our Fund for the Poorest The International Development Association (IDA) aims to reduce poverty by providing funding for programs that boost economic growth. IDA: Our Fund for the Poorest Additional Resources Related Country Poverty & Equity Assessments Poverty & Equity Briefs Umbrella Facility for Poverty and Equity Living Standards Measurement Study Contact Paul Clare pclare@worldbank.org Leslie Yun lyun@worldbankgroup.org This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×