MENA Quarterly Economic Brief, July 2016: Whither Oil Prices? --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work Home publication publication MENA Quarterly Economic Brief, July 2016: Whither Oil Prices? This page in: English Français العربية Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> A New Normal for Oil Prices This report predicts that the world oil market will work through its current oversupply and rebalance in early 2020 at market-clearing prices that will be in the range of $53 to $60 a barrel, close to the marginal cost of the last producer, US shale oil producers. This “new normal” for oil prices will have important implications for the economies of the Middle East and North Africa (MENA). Fiscal balances in MENA oil exporters swung from a surplus of $128 billion in 2013 to a deficit of $264 billion in 2016. The group of Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries lost $157 billion in oil revenues last year and is expected to lose another $100 billion this year. Saudi Arabia has depleted $178 billion in reserves, followed by Algeria ($28 billion), and Iraq ($27 billion) in 2015. How is MENA Reacting to the New Normal of Low Oil Prices? Persistently low oil prices are bringing change to MENA economies. Governments in the region are taking measures long considered impossible such as imposing taxes, eliminating fuel subsidies, and reducing public sector jobs and salaries. Almost every oil-exporting country is cutting subsidies to fuel, electricity, gas, and water. Many are cutting public spending and some, like Algeria, are freezing public-sector hiring. Oil importers such as Morocco, Egypt, and Jordan, who started reforming subsidies in 2014, are shifting from a fixed domestic price of fuel to one that is tied to the world price. Morocco and several GCC countries have introduced energy-efficiency improvements, lowering carbon emissions. These reforms are likely to transform the old social contract, where the state provided citizens with fuel and food subsidies and public-sector jobs, to a new one where the state promotes private-sector job creation and empowers citizens to make their own consumption choices. Read more about how each of the MENA oil exporters is reacting to low oil prices: Algeria Bahrain Iran Iraq Kuwait Libya Oman Qatar Saudi Arabia United Arab Emirates Yemen RELATED MENA Quarterly Economic Brief, July 2016 Press Release Factsheet Algeria Home Djibouti Egypt Gulf Cooperation Council Iran Iraq Jordan Lebanon Libya Morocco Syria Tunisia West Bank and Gaza Yemen View More + --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.