Energy Infrastructure Maps - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Back to climate , updates Energy Infrastructure Maps By Data.gov admins · February 25, 2014 Below are several example map services that illustrate the geographic distribution of energy resources, energy supply & demand, and infrastructure in the United States. About U.S. Natural Gas Pipelines # Application for viewing natural gas pipelines, vulnerabilities, and disruptions. Contributors: U.S. Energy Information Administration Energy Expenditure per Person per State # Map application of estimated costs for energy and transportation in the United States. Contributors: U.S. Department of Energy, U.S. Energy Information Administration Energy Production by State # Energy production by state in 2012. Contributors: U.S. Department of Energy, U.S. Energy Information Administration State Energy Data Systems Existing Hydropower Assets # HydroSource is an integrated energy, water, and ecosystem research effort for efficient, sustainable, and environmentally friendly hydroelectricity generation. This Interactive National Hydropower Map provides information on operational hydropower plants in the U.S. Contributors: U.S. Department of Energy, Oak Ridge National Laboratory Natural Gas Exploration, Resources, Reserves and Production # Map portal of historical oil and natural gas drilling sites as well as major shale plays in the contiguous U.S. Contributors: U.S. Energy Information Administration Non-powered Dam Resource Assessment (HydroSource) # Map of non-powered dams in the U.S. with potential capacity greater than one megawatt, provided by HydroSource. The map includes the potential capacity of each dam along with streamflow and runoff information. Contributors: Oak Ridge National Laboratory Nuclear Materials Facilities # Map of U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) regulated fuel cycle and uranium recovery facilities in Illinois, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio, South Carolina, Virginia, Washington, and Wyoming. Contributors: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Operating Nuclear Power Reactors # Map of U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) regulated nuclear reactors operating in the U.S. Contributors: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission POWER Data Access Viewer # Prediction of Worldwide Energy Resource (POWER) Solar and meteorological data sets from NASA research for support of renewable energy, building energy efficiency and agricultural needs. Contributors: NASA Regional Climate Vulnerabilities and Resilience Solutions # Regional Climate Vulnerabilities and Resilience Solutions Interactive map that illustrates how climate change has the potential to disrupt U.S. energy systems. Contributors: U.S. Department of Energy Residential Energy Demand Temperature Index (REDTI) # The Residential Energy Demand Temperature Index (REDTI) is based on a weighted population of heating and cooling degree days in response to energy demand in residential areas. Contributors: NOAA NCEI, U.S. Department of Commerce Solar Energy in United States # The Solar Resource Maps and Data provide annual and monthly average solar information, such as normal irradiance and global horizontal irradiance. Contributors: National Renewable Energy Laboratory Solar Energy Technologies Office (SETO) Solar Projects Map # Web mapping service for viewing SETO solar technologies projects dating back to 2007. Contributors: U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Total Renewable Energy Potential on Federal Lands by County # Map of Total Renewable Energy Potential on Federal Lands by County. Contributors: U.S. Department of Energy, National Renewable Energy Laboratory Wind Energy Technologies Office Projects Map # Web mapping service that allows users to navigate through the Office’s Research and Development portfolio for information on wind energy technologies. Contributors: U.S. Department of Energy About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov