New Trade Facilitation Support Program to Provide Technical Assistance for Developing Countries --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY New Trade Facilitation Support Program to Provide Technical Assistance for Developing Countries June 10, 2014 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Meeting with the World Bank Group (WBG) Office in Geneva, together with the European Commission, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), Canada, Switzerland, the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, and the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs on June 10, 2014. On June 10, 2014 the World Bank Group (WBG) Office in Geneva, together with the European Commission, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), Canada, Switzerland, the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, and the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs announced the establishment of a new Trade Facilitation Support Program (TFSP), which will help countries reform their trade facilitation practices in a manner consistent with the main components of the new TFA. The Program will focus on the effective implementation of trade facilitation reforms in developing countries to enhance private sector competitiveness, thus leading to increased trade, investments and job creation. It will have two main components – the provision of Technical Assistance (TA), where the WBG will help developing countries reform their trade facilitation laws, procedures, processes and systems in a manner consistent with the WTO TFA; the second component will focus on Knowledge, Learning and Measurement. For more information: Please visit www.TradeFacilitationSupportProgram.org and/or contact TFSP@worldbankgroup.org. RELATED WORLD BANK Trade Facilitation Support Program Presentation Statement with TFSP Announcement Factsheet about TFSP EXTERNAL Trade Facilitation Support Program Switzerland Trade Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.