If you want to make a mobile phone call, go to Sri Lanka --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News Infographic If you want to make a mobile phone call, go to Sri Lanka January 13, 2016 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Q. How did this happen? A. In part, because of the falling price of ownership and usage of mobile phones, particularly in South Asia Comparative prices for a basket of mobile calls in 2014 Loading data 6 /10 of the cheapest countries for using a mobile phone are in South Asia country 7 /10 Most expensive countries are in Western Europe country Monthly price for Mobiles % of GNI per capita Loading data As a percentage of income, developed countries pay less, but the gap is narrowing A basket of mobile calls The basket of services used is based on the OECD low-user basket which includes 30 outgoing calls a month (on and off-peak), plus 100 text messages RELATED WORLD BANK World Development Report 2016 WDR 2016 Infographics WDR 2016 Videos Press Release Feature Story --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.