Event | Innovating for Impact: Scaling Outcome Bonds and Catastrophe Bonds Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Innovating for Impact: Scaling Outcome Bonds and Catastrophe Bonds Share Overview Agenda Registration Join us for an exclusive in-person event , "Innovating for Impact: Scaling Outcome Bonds and Catastrophe Bonds" in Luxembourg on Thursday, June 26, 2025 , from 1:45 p.m. to 4:30 p.m . Outcome bonds are increasingly being used to finance specific projects with measurable development and social benefits. For example, in August 2024, the World Bank issued the $225 million Amazon Reforestation-Linked Outcome Bond to support restoration of degraded land in Brazil. This award-winning transaction offers investors a return linked to carbon removed from the atmosphere by the project. Catastrophe (cat) bonds allow sponsors to transfer disaster risk and mobilize financing from capital markets. The World Bank has arranged and issued over $4.5 billion of cat bonds that provide clients with financial protection against catastrophic events. These bonds offer investors attractive yields and portfolio diversification benefits. This event, organized by the World Bank and co-hosted by Luxembourg’s Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Defence, Development Cooperation and Foreign Trade – Directorate for Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Affairs, and the Luxembourg Stock Exchange, will highlight innovative financial solutions that enhance global resilience and promote sustainable development. The event will bring together investors, arrangers, and UN agencies to share experiences and explore opportunities for scaling up the market for outcome and catastrophe bonds. Don’t miss this opportunity to be part of a forward-looking conversation on the future of sustainable finance. For any event-related inquiries, please contact: aamat@worldbank.org . Preliminary Agenda 1:45 pm – 2:00pm Arrival and Registration 2:00 pm – 2:10 pm Welcome and Introductory Remarks 2:10 pm – 3:00pm Panel Discussion: World Bank Outcome Bonds Investing in innovative outcome bonds to support development challenges globally 3:00 pm – 3:20pm Coffee Break 3:20 pm – 4:10pm Panel Discussion: Catastrophe Bonds Supporting climate and disaster risk management efforts with an ESG investment 4:10 pm – 4:25pm Fireside Chat: Innovative finance for UN agencies Attracting investments from donors and impact investors to help close the funding gap and achieve social impact at scale 4:25 pm – 4:30pm Wrap Up & Closing Remarks Please complete the registration to confirm your participation. For any questions, contact aamat@worldbank.org . REGISTER NOW Virtual participation is available upon request. Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×