Highlights from recent activities of the Japan Chapter of the Parliamentary Network (PNoWB Japan) --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work Japan BRIEF Highlights from recent activities of the Japan Chapter of the Parliamentary Network (PNoWB Japan) June 18, 2025 This page in: English 日本語 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> General Meeting 2025 and Exchange of Views with Mercy Tembon, Vice President and Corporate Secretary of the World Bank Group Tokyo, June 18, 2025 The Japan Chapter of the Parliamentary Network on the World Bank headed by the Honorable Takeaki MATSUMOTO held a general meeting on June 18, where Chairman Matsumoto explained that Secretary-General Masahiro Komura and Deputy Secretary-General Alfiya Eri, both appointed after the general election last fall, would remain in their respective positions. In addition, the action policy for FY2025 was approved. The general meeting was followed by a session to exchange views with Mercy Tembon, Vice President and Corporate Secretary of the World Bank Group. 19 parliamentary members attended the session moderated by Secretary-General Komura, where Vice President and Corporate Secretary Mercy expressed her appreciation for Japan's contribution to the 21st replenishment of the International Development Association (IDA), and shared the results of Japan's support through IDA and the Japan Social Development Fund (JSDF), as well as the World Bank's evolution to redouble operational efficiency, before having a lively discussion with the attendees. Chairman Matsumoto made a remark that the Japan Chapter of the Parliamentary Network on the World Bank would continue to support the Bank's initiatives going forward. From the Government of Japan, the representatives from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also joined the meeting and the session. Previous meetings Related The World Bank In Japan RELATED Parliamentarians The Parliamentary Network Japan --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.