Members of the Swedish Parliament visiting the World Bank --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Members of the Swedish Parliament visiting the World Bank October 8, 2013 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Members of the Swedish Foreign Policy Committee met with Director for Gender and Development Jeni Klugman, for a one hour briefing on the implementation of the World Development Report 2012 on Gender and Development, the World Bank's systematic inclusion of the gender perspective in its work, and how the Bank monitors gender results. Klugman also briefed the attending legislators on our work to promote women's voice, agency and participation, and addressing differences in access to business opportunities. Committee members were amongst other interested in hearing about the Bank's efforts to address violence against women in fragile states; what touch stones the Bank sees between promoting gender equality and a rights based approach to development, and how the Bank's new poverty goals will change the focus of the Bank. RELATED WORLD BANK Women's Voice, Agency and Participation (website and report) World Development Report 2012 Women, Business and the Law (website and report) Sweden Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.