U.S. Energy Information Administration - EIA - Independent Statistics and Analysis Southern California Daily Energy Report Skip to sub-navigation U.S. Energy Information Administration - EIA - Independent Statistics and Analysis Menu Sources & Uses Topics Geography Tools Education News Sources & Uses Topics Geography Tools Education News Petroleum & Other Liquids Crude oil, gasoline, heating oil, diesel, propane, and other liquids including biofuels and natural gas liquids. Gasoline and Diesel Fuel Update Weekly Petroleum Status Report Natural Gas Exploration and reserves, storage, imports and exports, production, prices, sales. Weekly Natural Gas Storage Report Natural Gas Weekly Update Electricity Sales, revenue and prices, power plants, fuel use, stocks, generation, trade, demand & emissions. Electric Power Monthly Electricity Data Browser Consumption & Efficiency Energy use in homes, commercial buildings, manufacturing, and transportation. Residential Energy Consumption Survey (RECS) Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Survey (CBECS) Coal Reserves, production, prices, employment and productivity, distribution, stocks, imports and exports. Quarterly Coal Report Coal Data Browser Renewable & Alternative Fuels Includes hydropower, solar, wind, geothermal, biomass and ethanol. Alternative Fuel Vehicle Browser Nuclear & Uranium Uranium fuel, nuclear reactors, generation, spent fuel. Daily Status of Nuclear Outages Total Energy Comprehensive data summaries, comparisons, analysis, and projections integrated across all energy sources. Monthly Energy Review Annual Energy Review A-Z Index A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | XYZ Analysis & Projections Monthly and yearly energy forecasts, analysis of energy topics, financial analysis, congressional reports. Short-Term Energy Outlook Annual Energy Outlook International Energy Outlook Markets & Finance Financial market analysis and financial data for major energy companies. Market Prices and Uncertainty Report Energy & Financial Markets: What Drives Crude Oil Prices? Environment Greenhouse gas data, voluntary reporting, electric power plant emissions. U.S. Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions at the State Level, 2005-2016 Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions at the State Level Energy Disruptions Maps, tools, and resources related to energy disruptions and infrastructure. Energy Disruptions A-Z Index A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | XYZ U.S. States State energy information, including overviews, rankings, data, and analyses. State Energy Data System (SEDS) Maps Maps by energy source and topic, includes forecast maps. U.S. Energy Atlas U.S. Energy Mapping System Energy Disruptions International International energy information, including overviews, rankings, data, and analyses. International Energy Statistics Regional Dashboards & Data Regional energy information including dashboards, maps, data, and analyses. New England Dashboard Southern California Daily Energy Report Energy Disruptions A-Z Index A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | XYZ Glossary Data Tools, Apps, & Maps Tools to customize searches, view specific data sets, study detailed documentation, and access time-series data. Open Data EIA's free and open data available as API, Excel add-in, bulk files, and widgets EIA Beta Come test out some of the products still in development and let us know what you think! Open Source Code EIA's open source code, available on GitHub. All Reports & Publications EIA Survey Forms Forms EIA uses to collect energy data including descriptions, links to survey instructions, and additional information. Email Updates Sign up for email subscriptions to receive messages about specific EIA products RSS Feeds Subscribe to feeds for updates on EIA products including Today in Energy and What's New. Follow us. . . A-Z Index A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | XYZ Today in Energy Short, timely articles with graphics on energy, facts, issues, and trends. Energy Explained What is Energy? Units & Calculators U.S. Energy Facts Use of Energy Energy & Environment Petroleum Hydrocarbon Gas Liquids Natural Gas Coal Nuclear Electricity Hydrogen Hydropower Biofuels Biomass Wind Geothermal Solar For Teachers Lesson plans, science fair experiments, field trips, teacher guide, and career corner. Glossary FAQs Coal Conversion & Equivalents Oil/Petroleum Diesel Electricity Environment Gasoline General Energy Natural Gas Nuclear Prices Renewables A-Z Index A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | XYZ What's New? Annual Coal Report Nov 19, 2025 State Energy Portal: Updated Analyses and Quick Facts Nov 19, 2025 Annual Coal Distribution Report Nov 19, 2025 See what's new Press Room Press Releases Congressional Testimony Presentations Events Coming Up Coming Up Underground Natural Gas Working Storage Capacity Annual Solar Photovoltaic Module Shipments Report --> Featured Reports Reports requested by congress or otherwise deemed important. Midwest and Rocky Mountain Transportation Fuels Markets East Coast and Gulf Coast Transportation Fuels Markets West Coast Transportation Fuels Markets Southern California Daily Energy Report Effects of the Clean Power Plan --> A-Z Index A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | XYZ Enter Search Term(s): Search Southern California Daily Energy Report Dashboard last updated: Commentary last updated: Archived reports Note: Certain sections of the dashboard are currently unavailable. We will provide an update when we have more information. Dashboard Commentary PDF Print Take a tour Southern California Gas (SoCalGas) Natural gas price % Today Previous Total Southern California --> Total SoCal load (GWh) prior month prior year Pacific DC Intertie electricity flows to CAISO (GWh) SP-15 locational marginal price ($/MWh) Southern California natural gas infrastructure Total --> Notes and sources Notes and Sources Notes: Natural gas net change in inventory day over day is calculated to be the previous day's total inventory minus the current day's inventory. In June 2016, SoCalGas reported a downward adjustment to their working gas inventory; this change is reflected in the dashboard. EIA does not publish an estimate of either forecasted or actual total Southern California power load when one or more of the reporting entities does not provide information. However, EIA does publish this information for each entity that makes this information available Sources: U.S. Energy Information Administration EIA-930 : Hourly electricity demand and forecasted demand IHS Markit : Natural gas inventory and change National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration : Temperature S&P Global Market Intelligence : spot natural gas prices and basis values California ISO : Total SoCal load ﻿ August 10, 2021 Natural gas stocks in Southern California exceed 2020 levels and the five-year range Natural gas storage inventories reported by Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas) on its ENVOY electronic bulletin board showed that as of August 9, 2021, SoCalGas had higher inventories than at this time last year and more than the most recent five-year range (2016–2020). Natural gas stocks are currently 80.0 billion cubic feet (Bcf) compared with 77.4 Bcf a year ago. SoCalGas’s stocks are about 22% above the five-year average. Daily natural gas stocks at Southern California Gas Company, 2016–2021 billion cubic feet Source: Graph by the U.S. Energy Information Administration, based on data from Sempra Energy’s ENVOY electronic bulletin board system, as of August 9, 2021 Note: The five-year range includes the period from January 1, 2016, through December 31, 2020. SoCalGas inventories are up 34% since April 1, the start of summer. Current underground natural stocks at the SoCalGas Aliso Canyon Storage Facility are 33.5 Bcf, nearly peaking at the current maximum capacity of 34 Bcf. Natural gas stocks in California are robust despite higher natural gas loads and prices this summer. Average daily natural gas demand on the SoCalGas system, sometimes referred to as sendout, has averaged about 2.3 billion cubic feet per day (Bcf/d) since April 1, up 10% from sendout a year ago. Thermal (mostly natural gas) generation in the California Independent System Operator (CAISO) market has increased 42% so far this summer, according to data reported on Form EIA-930, Hourly and Daily Balancing Authority Operations Report. In addition, the daily natural gas spot price at the SoCal Citygate this summer (April 1–August 10) is up 150% over last summer and has averaged about $4.62 per million British thermal units. Several factors that are contributing to higher year-over-year working natural gas stocks in Southern California include higher renewable energy generation in CAISO, reduced cumulative curtailments of renewable generation in CAISO following several years of increases, higher working gas stocks at the start of summer compared with a year ago, and increased deliveries of natural gas into California from interstate natural gas pipelines. See EIA's Southern California Daily Energy Report for market updates. ﻿ May 12, 2021 Southern California Gas Company temporarily halts operations at the Aliso Canyon Natural Gas Storage Facility for planned maintenance The Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas) announced on May 7, 2021, that it would temporarily halt natural gas storage injection and withdrawal activity at the Aliso Canyon Natural Gas Storage Facility (Aliso Canyon) from May 9 to May 24 to complete field testing as part of its Storage Integrity Management Plan. Aliso Canyon, located in Los Angeles, California, has a current allowable working natural gas capacity of 34 billion cubic feet (Bcf). SoCalGas’s overall natural gas inventories were about 63.6 Bcf or about 75% full on May 11, the highest stocks during this part of the injection cycle since at least 2017 and almost 6 Bcf more than one year ago. SoCalGas reported withdrawing natural gas from Aliso Canyon on 14 occasions during March 2021 in its Monthly Aliso Canyon Withdrawal Report on April 5, 2021. Daily Southern California Gas Company storage inventories, Jan 2017 – May 2021 billion cubic feet Source: SoCalGas ENVOY electronic bulletin board In the broader Pacific region, natural gas stocks were about 56% full, according to our Natural Gas Storage Dashboard as of April 30, 2021. Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, Natural Gas Storage Dashboard See EIA's Southern California Daily Energy Report for market updates. ﻿ September 28, 2020 Southern California working natural gas inventories up year over year As of September 27, working natural gas inventories held by Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas) were about 79 billion cubic feet (Bcf), or 6 Bcf greater than this time last year, according to SoCalGas’ public electronic bulletin board. SoCalGas storage was about 94% full. Although SoCalGas working gas stocks were slightly lower than 2018 levels, they were more than 16 Bcf higher than levels in 2016 and in 2017. SoCalGas can use the high regional natural gas inventories in Southern California to help meet early fall demand spikes. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration forecasts temperatures in Los Angeles, California, to be much higher than normal on many days from September 28 to October 6. Daily Southern California Gas Company working natural gas storage inventories in September, 2016–2020 billion cubic feet Source: Data based on Sempra's ENVOY electronic bulletin board. Although working natural gas storage capacity is nearly full in Southern California, natural gas storage levels in the broader Pacific region storage market totaled about 78% of working gas capacity as of September 18, according to the fuel gauge for underground storage capacity utilization in EIA's Natural Gas Storage Dashboard . Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, Natural Gas Storage Dashboard See EIA's Southern California Daily Energy Report for updates on energy market conditions. July 21, 2020 Aliso Canyon natural gas storage use suspended until early August The Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas)—the owner and operator of the Aliso Canyon natural gas storage field (Aliso Canyon)—announced on July 20, 2020, that it will restrict injections and withdrawals of natural gas from July 22 to August 6, 2020, as part of a high-inventory shut-in maintenance event. As part of its overall system, SoCalGas operates three other storage fields (Honor Rancho, La Goleta, and Playa del Rey), but these fields will be unaffected by this announcement. Earlier this year (April 15–April 29, 2020) SoCalGas scheduled another temporary Aliso Canyon closure, which disallowed injections and withdrawals as part of a low-inventory maintenance event. On July 20, 2020, SoCalGas underground natural gas stocks totaled about 77.9 billion cubic feet (Bcf), or about 10.5 Bcf higher than one year ago. Natural gas load, or send-out, on the SoCalGas system has averaged 11% higher so far in July (July 1–July 20) compared with the same period in 2019, according to S&P Global Platts. Visit the Southern California Daily Energy Report for any updates in natural gas storage capacity availability. ﻿ July 14, 2020 Pacific region working natural gas stocks rebound Working natural gas stocks in the Pacific region of the United States were 310 billion cubic feet (Bcf), or 20 Bcf, above the current five-year average as of July 3, 2020. Pacific region stocks have lagged their rolling five-year average for years because of the effective loss of working natural gas capacity at Aliso Canyon , sustained decreases in natural gas deliveries as a result of maintenance and repairs , and extreme weather. However, so far in 2020, natural gas supplies in the Pacific region, which include local production and net natural gas inflows by pipelines, have outpaced demand in the Pacific region, especially in California, and have contributed to increased net injections of natural gas that have resulted in larger inventories (see charts below). Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, Natural Gas Storage Dashboard. Note: The five-year average in the Pacific region chart covers 2015–2019. Daily Southern California Gas Company working natural gas stocks cover the period Jan 1, 2019 – July 12, 2020. Stocks reflect volumes stored underground in Southern California Gas Company’s entire system. Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, daily data from Southern California Gas Company’s ENVOY electronic bulletin board. Note: The five-year average in the Pacific region chart covers 2015–2019. Daily Southern California Gas Company working natural gas stocks cover the period Jan 1, 2019 – July 12, 2020. Stocks reflect volumes stored underground in Southern California Gas Company’s entire system. The U.S. Energy Information Administration’s (EIA) Natural Gas Storage Dashboard fuel gauge visualization indicates that Pacific region storage is already 77% full at the midway point of the summer injection season (April–October). Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, Natural Gas Storage Dashboard. The Pacific region consists of three big energy end-use markets: Northern California, especially the San Francisco Bay area; Southern California; and the Interstate-5 corridor between Portland and Seattle in the Pacific Northwest. These markets mostly rely on eight natural gas storage facilities that manage natural gas injections and withdrawals in the Pacific region with a total working natural gas capacity of 419 Bcf. Key factors that have accounted for increased regional stocks so far in 2020 (Jan 1–July 8), as compared with the same period in 2019, include: Pacific Northwest Consumption of natural gas to generate electricity has averaged about 8 gigawatthours per day (GWh/d), or 35%, less in the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) service area, according to S&P Global Platts. Conversely, hydroelectric generation in BPA has increased about 17 GWh/d (8%), and wind generation has increased 7 GWh/d (44%), according to S&P Global Platts. Both the supply and consumption of natural gas in the Pacific Northwest have decreased 2%. Northern California Natural gas demand in Northern California, expressed here as the Pacific Gas & Electric (PG&E) service territory, has fallen more than regional natural gas supply so far in 2020. Average PG&E natural gas consumption has decreased by 6% in 2020 while natural gas supplies or receipts of natural gas into the PG&E distribution system have decreased only 3%, according to S&P Global Platts. PG&E’s core customer demand for natural gas in 2020 is down about 9%. Lower average temperatures in Northern California have contributed to less natural gas demand. For example, average temperatures in Sacramento in 2020 (Jan 1–July 8) averaged 3% lower than the same period in 2019. Southern California Working natural gas stocks in Southern California, held by the Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas), were up 11.4 Bcf, or about 17%, as of July 12, compared with one year ago, based on data from SoCalGas’s ENVOY electronic bulletin board. Natural gas stocks for the SoCalGas system already fill more than 90% of its capacity. Average natural gas consumption in Southern California has declined about 2% so far in 2020 compared with 2019 (Jan 1–July 8), while the supply of natural gas decreased only 1% for the same period, based on S&P Global Platts. Natural gas supplies include natural gas received by the SoCalGas backbone , or intrastate transmission pipeline, from interstate natural gas pipelines; natural gas deliveries from the Kern River Gas Transmission pipeline to meet Southern California demand; and modest volumes of natural gas from California producing wells. Despite slightly lower receipts of natural gas from outside California, mostly as a result of lower gas flows into SoCalGas’s Northern Zone at Topock, even larger declines in consumption have enabled SoCalGas to increase injections. Temperatures in Los Angeles have averaged about 3% warmer in 2020 so far compared with 2019. Increased availability of natural gas capacity in Southern California has contributed to less reliance on natural gas storage operations to meet demand. Electricity loads for most of California—the California Independent System Operator (CAISO) footprint—have been about 2% lower in 2020 so far compared with the same period in 2019. CAISO operates the electricity grid in California and helps manage the Energy Imbalance Market and other parts of the West. For updated details about regional natural gas storage and energy market issues, visit EIA’s Natural Gas Storage Dashboard , the Southern California Daily Energy Report , and the Hourly Electric Grid Monitor . ﻿ October 11, 2019 Pacific Gas and Electric Company’s scheduled shutdowns reduce electricity loads in California Starting at midnight, Pacific Standard Time on October 9, 2019, Pacific Gas and Electric (PG&E)—a large integrated combined services company with nearly 5.5 million customers in Northern and Central California—implemented what they referred to as a Public Safety Power Shutoff . PG&E intentionally stopped delivery of electricity to its customers in certain parts of their service territory that are considered vulnerable to fire risk because of gusty winds and dry conditions. These planned outages have contributed to lower electricity loads in parts of California. PG&E is providing regular updates on the outage in an interactive map . The power shutoffs have reduced loads on the PG&E system (see chart). Power demand in the area served by PG&E on the 9th was 6% to 10% lower than a typical autumn day. The evening peak in PG&E’s service territory failed to reach 12,500 megawatts (MWs), when demand typically rises each weekday to a range of 12,500 to 14,000 MW. PG&E reported on the 10th that there were still 312,000 customers without power. PG&E’s loads rose as restoration progressed; average real-time loads for the hours from midnight through 6 a.m. were up about 460 megawatts per hour on Oct 11 compared to Oct 10. Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, Form EIA-930, U.S. Electric System Operating Data Tool, and Hourly Grid Monitor . Note: CAISO is the California Independent System Operator. See EIA’s Hourly Grid Monitor tool for updates about electricity demand in California. ﻿ September 26, 2019 California Public Utilities Commission urges Southern California Gas Company to increase natural gas storage injections On September 17, 2019, the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) urged Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas) to increase injections of natural gas at its underground storage fields. Specifically, the CPUC’s letter suggested several steps SoCalGas should take to maintain reliable delivery of natural gas to core and non-core customers for the upcoming winter: Increase injections at all available facilities immediately Make up to 100 million cubic feet per day of Cycle 1 firm injection capacity available for customers to use before the natural gas procurement period for monthly gas or bidweek for the coming month (October) Release additional natural gas injection capacity to customers for Cycle 1 on the day before the gas flow day, if conditions allow Use best efforts to make injection capacity available CPUC asked SoCalGas to increase natural gas injections before this winter heating season begins, in part, because on-going pipeline maintenance may constrain natural gas pipeline availability this winter, much like last winter. In addition, current natural gas inventories (72.4 billion cubic feet (Bcf)) are lower than year-ago levels by about 8 Bcf (see chart below). SoCalGas customer demand averaged about 3.1 Bcf per day from September 1–September 26, 2019, up about 5% from the same period in 2018. Source: Southern California Gas Company Envoy electronic bulletin board, September 26, 2019. ﻿ September 19, 2019 Southern California Gas Company adopts new withdrawal protocols at the Aliso Canyon Natural Gas Storage facility On July 23, 2019, the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) approved new rules for how Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas) may withdraw natural gas at the Aliso Canyon Natural Gas Storage facility (Aliso Canyon). Previously, SoCalGas was only authorized to withdraw natural gas in an emergency, but the new rules are more flexible for addressing changes in natural gas supply and demand. Under the new 2019 Aliso Canyon Withdraw Protocol, SoCalGas has more options for when it can withdraw natural gas from Aliso Canyon, subject to several conditions: Preliminary low Operational Flow Order (OFO) calculations for any cycle result in a Stage 2 low OFO or higher for the applicable gas day (7:00 a.m. for the current day through 7:00 a.m. the next day, Pacific Standard Time) A low OFO condition occurs when the system may not have enough natural gas coming in to meet deliveries to customers. Aliso Canyon is at more than 70% of its maximum allowable inventory between February 1 and March 31 In this case, SoCalGas may withdraw from Aliso Canyon until inventory declines to 70% of its maximum allowable inventory. Stocks in the Honor Rancho and/or La Goleta fields decline to 110% of their month-end minimum inventory requirements (shown in Table 1 below) during the winter season An imminent and identifiable risk of gas curtailments occurs that was created by an emergency condition This rule applies when the emergency has the potential to affect public health and safety or result in curtailments of electric load and these affects could be mitigated by withdrawals from Aliso Canyon. The CPUC regulates California’s above-ground natural gas pipelines and appurtenances in storage fields. California’s Division of Oil, Gas, and Geothermal Resources (DOGGR) regulates natural gas storage wells. Table 1 shows the end-of-month minimum inventory levels identified by CPUC to be used with the new threshold conditions under the new protocol. Table 1: Month-End Minimum Inventory (Bcf) November December January February March Aliso Canyon 5.7 5.1 4.4 3.8 2.1 Honor Rancho 13.9 13.2 12.6 7.5 5.0 La Goleta 8.0 7.9 7.7 7.6 7.5 Playa del Rey 1.9 1.9 1.5 1.1 0.7 Total 29.5 28.1 26.2 20.0 15.3 Source: California Public Utilities Commission, “ Updated Withdrawal Protocol , July 23, 2019. More operational flexibility may help SoCalGas better respond to changes in natural gas supply/demand conditions this winter, especially given current inventory levels. SoCalGas total working natural gas inventory was 72 billion cubic feet (Bcf) on September 19, 2019, or about 8 Bcf lower than a year ago, according to public data posted on SoCalGas’ electronic bulletin board. You can find updates on Southern California energy conditions in EIA’s Southern California Daily Energy Report . ﻿ June 24, 2019 Southern California Gas Company announces that working gas inventory at Aliso Canyon has reached its authorized maximum level On June 19, 2019, Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas) reported on its maintenance schedule that the Aliso Canyon Natural Gas Storage Facility (Aliso Canyon) had reached its maximum authorized level of 34 billion cubic feet (Bcf) of working gas in storage. The energy division of the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) approved the increase to SoCalGas' maximum allowable working gas level in a report published July 6, 2018. The CPUC explained that increasing Aliso Canyon's working gas would Give SoCalGas more flexibility in managing natural gas flow needs because of the number of pipeline outages that have occurred on the SoCalGas system Bolster working gas capacity as a result of declines in working gas capacity at non-Aliso storage facilities Help SoCalGas meet 1-in-10 year peak day natural gas demand throughout the winter Establish more SoCalGas system-wide injection capacity On June 23, 2019, EIA's Southern California Daily Energy Report indicated that total working gas inventory across all of SoCalGas was about 63.2 Bcf of a combined total working gas capacity of 83 Bcf. SoCalGas inventories decreased about 23 Bcf between early February 2019 and mid-March 2019 because of cold weather and natural gas pipeline constraints. By contrast, since mid-March, periods of lower-than-normal natural gas demand on the SoCalGas system and increased natural gas deliveries through SoCalGas's Northern receipt zone contributed to increasing net natural gas injections into SoCalGas's storage fields. Source: SoCalGas ENVOY electronic bulletin board, June 12, 2019 --> ﻿ June 12, 2019 Southern California Gas Company working natural gas storage inventories are back at parity with 2018 inventories Increased natural gas storage injections since March have brought Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas) inventories back to parity with 2018 levels; current natural gas storage inventories are about 10 billion cubic feet (Bcf) greater than at this point in 2017. SoCalGas reported inventories of 58.8 Bcf on June 11, 2019, or just 0.2 Bcf lower than the inventories on June 11, 2018. From June 8-10, SoCalGas reported higher natural gas storage inventories compared with the same period in 2018, which was the first time that 2019 inventories have exceeded 2018 inventories since February 2019. SoCalGas inventories decreased about 23 Bcf between early February 2019 and mid-March 2019 because of cold weather and natural gas pipeline constraints. By contrast, since mid-March, periods of lower-than-normal natural gas demand on the SoCalGas system and increased natural gas deliveries through SoCalGas’s Northern receipt zone contributed to increasing net natural gas injections into SoCalGas’s storage fields. Source: SoCalGas ENVOY electronic bulletin board, June 12, 2019 ﻿ May 21, 2019 Independent contractor releases root cause analysis of Aliso Canyon Natural Gas Storage Facility accident On May 17, 2019, the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) and the California Department of Conservation’s Division of Oil, Gas, and Geothermal Resources (DOGGR) issued a press release describing what caused the leak that started on October 23, 2015, at Southern California Gas Company’s Aliso Canyon Natural Gas Storage Facility (Aliso Canyon). Blade Energy Partners conducted an independent analysis of the leak and CPUC has published their findings, Root Cause Analysis of the Uncontrolled Hydrocarbon Release from Aliso Canyon SS-25 , on the Aliso Canyon website. The report explains The root cause of the leak—a rupture of a 7-inch well casing because of groundwater corrosion Previous leak follow-up inspections by Southern California Gas Company Well-integrity risk management and real-time monitoring at Aliso Canyon before the incident New well safety practices and regulations adopted by DOGGR after the incident at Aliso Canyon In the press release, CPUC announced it plans to hold a public meeting in Southern California in June or July 2019 where Blade Energy Partners will discuss their report with the public. EIA’s Southern California Daily Energy Report provides daily energy market updates and occasional commentary. ﻿ March 19, 2019 Average winter spot natural gas prices at the Southern California Gas Citygate set record highs Average spot natural gas prices at the Southern California Gas (SoCalGas) Citygate are on record pace so far this winter (November 1, 2018–March 18, 2019), averaging $7.23 per million British thermal units (MMBtu). The spot price of natural gas at the SoCalGas Citygate has averaged about 76% higher than the average price at this trading hub for the same period during the winter of 2017–18. Several factors contributed to higher spot natural gas prices in Southern California this winter, including Episodic cold weather SoCalGas-issued operational flow orders to ensure scheduled natural gas receipts closely match the natural gas actually used Natural gas pipeline outages and maintenance High utilization of the natural gas infrastructure Aliso Canyon storage facility restrictions Source: S&P Global Market Intelligence Note: The SoCalGas Citygate trading hub represents the price of natural gas delivered to or from SoCalGas’s distribution system. Price data for 2018/19 cover the period November 1, 2018-March 18, 2019. The spot price of natural gas at the Henry Hub—the nation’s benchmark trading hub—averaged $3.43/MMBtu. This spot price is less than one-half the average price of delivered natural gas in Southern California and is up 13% compared with the winter of 2017–18. The average difference, or basis, between the price of natural gas delivered into Southern California measured at the SoCalGas Citygate and at the Henry Hub averaged $3.73/MMBtu from November 1, 2018 to March 18, 2019, more than three times higher than the same period in 2017–18. Before the winter of 2017–18, the typical average winter basis between the SoCalGas Citygate and the Henry Hub was less than $0.35/MMBtu. Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, based on S&P Global Market Intelligence Note: Price data for 2018-19 cover the period November 1, 2018-March 18, 2019. EIA provides a daily summary of key energy conditions, as well as occasional commentary and analysis on notable market conditions in Southern California, in its Southern California Daily Energy Report . ﻿ March 12, 2019 Working natural gas inventories in Southern California decrease to less than 36 billion cubic feet Working natural gas inventories in the Southern California Natural Company (SoCalGas) storage system have decreased during the winter (November through March) to about 35.9 billion cubic feet (Bcf) as of March 11, down more than 50% from about 81 Bcf in early November 2018. Inventories are now historically low; only five winters since 2001 have seen natural gas inventories dip lower than current levels, according to the SoCalGas data on its public electronic bulletin board. SoCalGas natural gas stocks have not been as low as they are now since February 2014, when natural gas stocks fell materially throughout much of the country because of episodes of cold weather related to polar vortex weather conditions. Source: Southern California Gas Co. ENVOY system. Working natural gas inventories started out the winter of 2018–19 with more than 80 Bcf of natural gas in the four major SoCalGas storage fields. This level was the highest pre-winter level of natural gas stocks in Southern California since the start of the winter of 2015–16, just after the accident at the Aliso Canyon natural gas complex. On July 2, 2018, the California Public Utility Commission (CPUC) directed SoCalGas to increase its working natural gas stocks at the Aliso Canyon storage complex to 34 Bcf to give SoCalGas more flexibility in meeting winter natural gas demands amid on-going repairs and maintenance on the SoCalGas pipeline network that limited receipts of natural gas from certain zones. Natural gas storage withdrawals have been high from the SoCalGas storage system for several reasons: A cold February contributed to about a 19 Bcf drawdown in total stocks. By contrast, SoCalGas withdrew about 8 Bcf during February 2018 and withdrew about 11 Bcf on average each February during 2013-2017. From November 1, 2018, to March 11, 2019, natural gas receipt capacity averaged about 0.46 billion cubic feet per day less than, the same period during the 2017–18 winter. At the same time, average natural gas demand was about 6% higher. As a result, the major natural gas receipt zones (Southern Zone, Northern Zone, and Wheeler Ridge) on the SoCalGas system were used more. The average load factor—average daily natural gas flows divided by total available operating capacity—so far from November 1, 2018, to March 11, 2019, has been 93% compared with 84% for the same period during the winter of 2017–18. The average spot price of natural gas at the SoCalGas Citygate trading hub from November 1, 2018, to March 11, 2019, averaged $7.39 per million British thermal units (MMBtu) compared with $4.15/MMBtu during the winter of 2017–18, a 78% percent increase. High average spot natural gas prices this winter may have provided incentives to withdraw natural gas supplies from storage instead of purchasing natural gas on the spot market. Source: derived from OPIS PointLogic data. EIA’s Southern California Daily Energy Report provides daily market information relevant to Southern California. EIA’s Natural Gas Storage Dashboard provides details on underground natural gas storage in the broader Pacific region. ﻿ September 27, 2018 Southern California Gas Company announces working natural gas levels at its storage fields are near full capacity Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas) posted an update to its online natural gas electronic bulletin board system (ENVOY) on September 26, 2018, indicating that working natural gas levels at its Honor Rancho storage facility had reached full capacity. As shown on the map, Honor Rancho is one of four storage fields that comprise the SoCalGas natural gas storage system. Previously, SoCalGas announced on September 24, 2018, that its Aliso Canyon natural gas storage facility was at full working natural gas capacity as authorized by the California Public Utility Commission. SoCalGas’ current level of working natural gas is 80.85 billion cubic feet (Bcf) of an estimated total effective working natural gas capacity of 83.4 Bcf, according to EIA’s Southern California Daily Energy Report . Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration. In a Critical Notice issued on September 25, 2018, SoCalGas stated its natural gas storage fields were approaching maximum inventories. As a result, SoCalGas indicated that starting October 1, 2018, SoCalGas would limit daily natural gas storage injections to 65 million cubic feet per day and restrict storage use to system balancing; no nominations for injections would be accepted. For updates on regional natural gas storage activity, follow EIA’s Natural Gas Storage Dashboard and the Southern California Daily Energy Report . ﻿ September 25, 2018 Natural gas inventories in Southern California up more than 30% year over year As of the September 14, 2018 report week, working natural gas inventories in EIA’s Pacific region—California, Oregon, and Washington—totaled 255 billion cubic feet (Bcf), down 44 Bcf (15%) from last year’s level at this time, despite an inventory increase of nearly 20 Bcf increase in inventories in Southern California. EIA’s new Natural Gas Storage Dashboard shows that overall Pacific region storage capacity utilization is about 62%. Sources: U.S. Energy Information Administration based on the Natural Gas Storage Dashboard . The Pacific region has the smallest level of natural gas storage capacity based on EIA’s two measures of capacity: design and demonstrated maximum (for the years 2012–17). Meeting summer demands for electricity generation and building stocks for the upcoming winter depend on having sufficient working gas levels in the Pacific region. In addition to these seasonal needs, working gas in the Pacific region helps balance daily and hourly demand changes because the Pacific region relies on intermittent renewable sources of electric generating capacity, such as wind, photovoltaic solar, and hydroelectric. The Pacific region’s natural gas inventories were lower than normal this summer because of several factors: Temperature-driven cooling loads. Warmer-than-normal temperatures during parts of summer 2018 in the Pacific region contributed to increased natural gas consumption by electric generators to meet air-conditioning loads. California recorded its hottest average temperatures in July since the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) began collecting this temperature information in 1895. As a result, natural gas use by electric generators served by Pacific Gas & Electric’s (PG&E) distribution system was up 31% year-to-date (January 1 to September 24), according to S&P Global Platts. Adjacent states also posted some of their warmest July temperatures ever. Source: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, National Climate Report - July 2018 . Note: Higher ordinal numbers in the map reflect hotter years in the 1895—2018 temperature history for July. A value of 124 reflects the hottest year recorded. Reduced hydroelectric availability. Hydroelectric generation in the Pacific Northwest has been down 3% year-to-date (January1—September 20) in 2018 compared to the level over the same period in 2017, according to S&P Global Platts. Hydroelectric generation in the California Independent System Operator (CAISO) service area, which covers most of California, decreased 33% in 2018 (January through August) compared with the same period in 2017. Lower hydroelectric generation contributed to greater natural gas use and reduced natural gas injections into storage. Pipeline constraints. Ongoing Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas) natural gas pipeline outages affected SoCalGas’s ability to receive natural gas from interstate natural gas pipelines and reduced the ability to buy natural gas at the Southern California border and likely contributed to higher natural gas storage withdrawals in the Pacific region. Moreover, pipeline constraints in Southern California elevated the spot price of natural gas at the Southern California Citygate to average $9.18 per million British thermal units in July and August, which raised the locational marginal prices for electricity in the region. Those higher electricity prices, in turn, created incentives for generators in Northern California to burn natural gas and transmit electricity to the South—reducing the amount of natural gas available to inject. Increasing solar penetration. The CAISO power grid needed flexible ramping services or generators that could start quickly during the summer of 2018 because of the continued growth of solar generating capacity and the lower availability of in-state hydroelectric generation. Average solar generation for heavy load hours in CAISO was up about 12% so far in 2018 (January – September) compared with average solar generation for the same period in 2017, based on EnergyGPS data. Consuming natural gas to help meet these flexible generation or ramping needs reduced the amount of natural gas available for injection. In the Southern California Daily Energy Report posted on September 12, EIA indicated that the 19 Bcf increase in natural gas stocks in Southern California was the result of the California Public Utility Commission’s directive to the SoCalGas to increase working gas capacity at its Aliso Canyon storage complex from about 24 Bcf to 34 Bcf. The Aliso Canyon storage facility had a working gas capacity of about 86 Bcf before the methane leak accident in October 2015. ﻿ September 12, 2018 Natural gas inventories in Southern California up more than 30% year over year Southern California Gas Company's (SoCalGas) working natural gas inventory was 77.7 billion cubic feet (Bcf) on September 11, 2018, up 20 Bcf or about 34% since early September 2017. Natural gas stocks in Southern California are now the highest since January 2016. SoCalGas' demand for natural gas peaks between December and February, despite the region's generally mild winter climate. Increasing its natural gas inventory will help SoCalGas meet winter energy energy in Southern California. SoCalGas natural gas stocks are higher now than a year ago because of several factors: More access to natural gas storage capacity. On July 2, 2018, the California Public Utility Commission (CPUC) directed SoCalGas to increase its working natural gas inventory at the Aliso Canyon storage facility to 34 Bcf, representing more than a 9 Bcf increase in overall capacity. The CPUC ordered the increase in working gas at SoCalGas's Aliso Canyon complex to increase natural gas supplies that may be required for the upcoming winter. Lower natural gas consumption. SoCalGas' natural gas consumption so far this summer (April 1 – September 10) has been about 7% lower in 2018 compared with natural gas consumption for the same period in 2017. Also, natural gas used for power generation in California is down about 6% so far this summer. Offsets to account for pipeline outages. SoCalGas has carried a bigger working gas reserve to help meet summer demand and to build stocks for winter partly as a result of reduced natural gas pipeline receipt capacity this summer because of maintenance and repairs. Source: EIA Southern California Daily Energy Report. ﻿ July 13, 2018 Record daily-high temperatures in Southern California lead to high electricity demand and power outages Daily maximum temperatures across Southern California exceeded historical observations at 17 NOAA weather stations on July 6, 2018. The extreme heat led to high levels of electricity demand for air conditioning throughout the region, particularly in Los Angeles where the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (LADWP) balancing authority experienced power outages for thousands of customers. The sharply higher electricity demand was met, in part, by a combination of increased natural gas-fired electric power generation and electricity imports into the LADWP service territory. Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration EIA-930 data Notes: Daily peaks for generation and demand do not necessarily correspond to the same hour. However, for July 6, 2018, the peaks shown above do correspond to the same hour. The heat wave resulted in high electric power demand, reaching an hourly peak of 6,979 megawatthours (MWh) on July 6, 2018. This level was the highest hourly peak since September 1, 2017, when it reached 7,061 MWh, according to EIA-930 data. The peak-hour trade imbalance (electricity imports minus electricity generation) for July 6, 2018 was 1,017 MWh. Daily average temperatures with locations of record daily-high temperatures for July 6, 2018 Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration based on data from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Sempra Energy subsidiaries Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas) and San Diego Gas and Electric distribute much of the natural gas used in Southern California. SoCalGas continues to face pipeline constraints this summer, which limit the amount of natural gas that can be imported into the region. Natural gas is typically injected into underground storage in Southern California during the summer, ahead of higher winter demand for space heating. On July 3, 2018, SoCalGas issued a system-wide curtailment watch in anticipation of increased demand for natural gas for electric power generation. Ultimately, however, no curtailments were announced on the SoCalGas electronic bulletin board system, and the watch ended on July 9, 2018. SoCalGas' total system deliveries (sendout) of natural gas reached 2.8 billion cubic feet (Bcf) on July 6, slightly less than the 2.9 Bcf day-ahead forecast. During July 6 and July 7, 2018, SoCalGas withdrew 336 million cubic feet (MMcf) of natural gas from underground storage to meet demand. Although summertime withdrawals can occur, SoCalGas is working to maximize storage injections to meet peak demand for the upcoming winter. Recently, the California Public Utilities Commission authorized SoCalGas to maintain up to 34 billion cubic feet (Bcf) of natural gas at the Aliso Canyon storage facility in anticipation of winter demand, an increase of 9.4 Bcf from the level previously authorized for that facility. Day-ahead natural gas prices at the SoCal Citygate reflected both the recent increase in natural gas demand for power generation and the need to withdraw natural gas from storage. Delivery-day prices for June 6, 2018, reached $8.28per million British thermal units ($/MMBtu), the highest price for natural gas at the SoCal Citygate since the beginning of the injection season, traditionally April 1. ﻿ July 3, 2018 California regulator directs Southern California Gas Company to maintain up to 34 billion cubic feet of working gas at Aliso Canyon On July 2, 2018, the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC)—the principal regulator for natural gas distribution companies in California— directed the Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas) to maintain a working gas capacity of up to 34 billion cubic feet (Bcf) at the Aliso Canyon storage facility. Previously, CPUC had limited SoCalGas to a total working gas capacity at Aliso Canyon of 24.6 Bcf. CPUC increased Aliso Canyon’s allowed working gas capacity because of the high level of pipeline outages on the SoCalGas system, the increased flexibility required for SoCalGas to effectively respond to core and non-core gas needs in a potential 1 in 10-year demand event, and concerns about having adequate natural gas supplies heading into winter 2018–19. CPUC did not change the protocols SoCalGas must follow to use the Aliso Canyon storage complex. Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, based on SoCalGas ENVOY electronic bulletin board system and California Public Utilities Commission. SoCalGas can now increase its effective working gas capacity from 74 Bcf to about 83 Bcf. On July 3, total working gas held by SoCalGas was about 63 Bcf, according to EIA’s Southern California Daily Energy Report , or more than 11 Bcf more than in 2017 at this time. The current National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration temperature outlook heading into the weekend calls for temperatures in Los Angeles of more than 100 degrees with even higher temperatures inland. Rising temperatures will likely result in more natural gas flows on the SoCalGas pipeline network and potential net natural gas storage withdrawals to meet the higher demand for natural gas on the SoCalGas system. Forecast of maximum temperatures in Southern California for July 6, 2018 Source: National Weather Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration ﻿ March 8, 2018 Spot natural gas price at SoCal Citygate reaches record high amid supply constraints Sources: Natural Gas Intelligence (prices), Bureau of Labor Statistics (consumer price index) The spot natural gas price in Southern California reached $19.58 per million British thermal units ($/MMBtu) on February 20, 2018—the highest price since 2000, and a record for the SoCal Citygate pricing point—according to data from Natural Gas Intelligence. The recent high price occurred during a period of moderately cold weather that raised demand, but not to levels as high as in other recent winters. The record price occurred because Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas) is less able to meet peak demands this winter than in recent years as a result of the following factors: Ongoing unplanned maintenance on supply pipelines Reduced ability to draw on SoCalGas storage facilities Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration based on National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Weather and Demand. Temperatures in coastal Southern California reached an average of 46 degrees Fahrenheit (℉) on February 20, 2018, or 8℉ lower than the 1981–2010 average for that day. Daily average temperature deviations of this magnitude during winter months are not uncommon in Southern California, and each of the previous five winters (December through February) had days of colder daily average temperatures compared with the 2017–18 winter. With colder-than-normal temperatures in Southern California, demand for natural gas in the region increased, straining the SoCalGas distribution system. SoCalGas is under reduced operational capacity for importing natural gas into the state through key delivery corridors and for withdrawing natural gas from underground storage facilities. Notes: Receipt capacity and activity are the summation of the SoCalGas Southern, Northern, and Wheeler Ridge Zones (California Production Zones are not included). Maximum receipt capacity can vary from day to day, and larger reductions indicate more significant pipeline constraints. Source: SoCalGas ENVOY Reduced Pipeline Supply. Natural gas pipeline flows through SoCalGas's Northern Zone—a key corridor for bringing natural gas from the southeastern California border to markets across the state—are limited to 870 million cubic feet per day (MMcf/d) because of ongoing unplanned maintenance and outages on two major pipelines (Line 3000 and Line 235-2). This limitation constrained the ability of SoCalGas to import natural gas into the region. On February 20, 2018—when delivery-day prices reached $19.58/MMBtu— flows through the Northern, Southern, and Wheeler Ridge Zones reached the maximum operating capacity of each zone. Note: Downward inventory adjustments of 5.5 Bcf on February 24, 2014 and 4.7 Bcf on June 20, 2016 are not shown as storage activity. Source: SoCalGas ENVOY Reduced Storage Flexibility. SoCalGas has less ability to draw from regional natural gas storage primarily because of ongoing limitations at the Aliso Canyon facility. Planned and unplanned maintenance at the Goleta, Honor Rancho, and Playa del Rey storage facilities have also limited SoCalGas's access to inventories. With the increased demand for natural gas following colder-than-normal weather on February 20, 2018, natural gas withdrawals from the SoCalGas inventory approached operating capacity, according to SoCalGas ENVOY. During this period of colder weather, SoCalGas continues to issue system-wide curtailments for electric generation customers. Receipts in the Northern Zone are expected to continue to be limited because of ongoing maintenance, and on February 25, March 1, and March 5, 2018, SoCalGas withdrew 0.08 Bcf, 0.24 Bcf, and 0.21 Bcf, respectively, from the Aliso Canyon storage facility, according to SoCalGas ENVOY. ﻿ February 16, 2018 Natural gas consumption in Southern California is down this winter Between November 1, 2017 and February 15, 2018, natural gas consumption in Southern California averaged 8%, or 0.3 billion cubic feet per day (Bcf/d), less than the same time period in the prior year and 10% below the previous 5-year average. Natural gas consumption in Southern California, particularly by homes and commercial businesses, varies seasonally. During peak winter months when natural gas use for space heating is common, residential and commercial consumption averages about 2 Bcf/d. So far this winter, residential/commercial natural gas consumption in Southern California has been lower than in recent years, averaging about 4% lower in November and December 2017 compared with the same time period in 2016. Southern California has experienced warmer weather this winter than in previous years, as measured by the accumulation of heating degree days (HDD). Warmer weather translated into reduced natural gas needs to heat homes and businesses, lowering residential and commercial natural gas consumption. Since November 2017, Southern California has accumulated 41% fewer HDDs than over the same time period in the previous year, and is less to date than any of the past 5 years. Natural gas consumption for electric power generation in Southern California tends to peak in the summer when demand for air conditioning is higher, but demand for natural gas by electric power is less variable than the residential and commercial sectors and can average more than 2 Bcf/d in winter months. Over the past several years, natural gas use for electric power generation has been decreasing throughout California for several reasons: Increased solar generation —solar output in California Independent System Operator’s (CAISO) SP-15 region has increased 26% in the period since November 1, 2017 compared to the same time period the previous year, according to EnergyGPS Ability and economic incentive to import electricity into Southern California California greenhouse gas emissions targets encouraging alternatives without greenhouse gas emissions Improved efficiency of the natural gas-fired electric generator fleet As a consequence of the combination of these factors, the share of natural gas in California’s electricity mix has decreased relative to solar and other renewables. Unlike in much of the United States, natural gas consumption for electric power generation in California tends to be highest in the morning and late afternoon hours and much lower in the middle of the day. This pattern developed as solar electricity became a more significant contributor to overall generation. Southern California electricity customer demand ramps up and down through the day more slowly than solar output as the sun rises and sets. With less overall demand for natural gas in Southern California, storage activity at SoCalGas facilities has been less variable than in past years, particularly withdrawals. Consequently, total natural gas inventories at SoCalGas storage facilities are about 15 Bcf higher than they were at this time last year, or 58 Bcf. January 19, 2018 Ongoing natural gas pipeline outages in Southern California affecting SoCalGas’s natural gas supply flexibility Natural gas pipeline outages on the Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas) system continue to affect how SoCalGas imports natural gas into Southern California along key corridors. On January 17, 2018, new unplanned remediation work on a major pipeline reduced capacity by 270 million cubic feet per day (MMcf/d) through a key corridor on the SoCalGas distribution system. At the end of December 2017, SoCalGas completed repairs and maintenance on its natural gas pipeline network, providing more redundancy, increasing capacity by 740 MMcf/d, and helping SoCalGas manage its winter-peaking needs. SoCalGas completed remediation work on Line 4000—restoring 740 MMcf/d—and partially repaired Line 235-2—restoring 270 MMcf/d—on December 22, 2017. However, on January 17, 2018, new unplanned remediation work on Line 4000 reduced capacity by 270 MMcf/d with no completion date specified. An additional 530 MMcf/d of SoCalGas capacity will be available when Line 235-2 is fully restored, although no completion date has been specified yet. From December 23, 2017, through January 15, 2018, daily natural gas receipts in SoCalGas’s Northern Zone averaged 11% higher than on December 22, 2017, when the first major repairs were completed. Over the same period, total receipts on the SoCalGas system decreased by an average of 5%, while total system sendout (consumption) decreased by 22%. SoCalGas imports natural gas into Southern California through four main corridors, or zones: the Northern Zone, the Southern Zone, the Wheeler Ridge Zone, and a collection of California Production areas, where natural gas is produced within the state. From January 1 through August 31, 2017, the Northern Zone accounted for 41% of natural gas imports into Southern California, and the Southern Zone and the Wheeler Ridge Zone accounted for 30% and 28%, respectively. The remainder was received from the California Production areas. These two major pipeline outages in the SoCalGas Northern Zone—Line 4000 on September 18, 2017, and Line 235-2 on October 1, 2017—had reduced flows from the California–Arizona border through Needles, California, to markets across the state. These disruptions on the SoCalGas distribution system reduced SoCalGas’s flexibility to manage its system, constrained regional imports of natural gas into the Southern California market, and contributed to sourcing natural gas along alternate routes. The Northern Zone was already operating at a reduced capacity before the outages on Line 4000 and Line 235–2 occurred. Since April 2016, remediation work on Line 3000 has limited receipts in Topock, and since February 2017, Topock has received no natural gas. When Line 4000 was taken out of service for unplanned maintenance starting on September 18, 2017, capacity through the Northern Zone was further reduced by 740 MMcf/d. On October 1, 2017, Line 235-2 (which provides redundancy to Line 4000) ruptured near Newberry Springs , curtailing receipts at Needles. Prior to the Northern Zone pipeline outages, the Southern Zone had been operating at reduced capacity because of a voluntary pressure reduction on Line 2000. The pressure reduction limited receipts at the Blythe and Ehrenberg receipt points by a total of 202 MMcf/d starting in January 2, 2015. After the Line 4000 and Line 235-2 outages, however, receipts in the Southern Zone increased—primarily through the Ehrenberg receipt point—which largely offset the loss of capacity in the Northern Zone. On several days following the Line 235-2 outage, SoCalGas’s natural gas receipts at Ehrenberg reached maximum operating capacity. Another result of the combination of reduced natural gas border receipt capacity in the Northern Zone and ongoing capacity limitations in the Southern Zone, SoCalGas increased natural gas supplies from its generally underused Otay Mesa receipt at the U.S.-Mexican border near San Diego. SoCalGas increased receipts at Otay Mesa to about 130 MMcf/d from October 19 through November 11, 2017, until a temporary natural gas quality issue forced SoCalGas to curtail these receipts. When the issue was resolved on December 1, 2017, Otay Mesa natural gas receipts rose once again to average about 130 MMcf/d from December 2, 2017, to January 15, 2018. Receipts in the Wheeler Ridge Zone (which had been operating at maximum capacity) and in the California Production areas remained about the same following the outages in the Northern Zone. Typically, natural gas consumption for residential and commercial use in Southern California peaks in the winter months. Most of the demand in the SoCalGas service area lies west of the Northern Zone, with the highest rates of consumption in the Southern California coastal region (see map). EIA continues to provide ongoing commentary in the Southern California Daily Energy Report on the effect these pipeline outages and several other unrelated, overlapping infrastructure and energy-related issues. These issues have affected SoCalGas’s ability to receive and deliver natural gas to customers and have resulted in natural gas market price volatility. December 7, 2017 Wildfires in Southern California may affect the regional energy system Four wind-driven, mostly uncontained wildfires in Southern California may pose additional challenges to the energy system in the region because of the possible loss of electric transmission capability in the path of these fires. As discussed in this blog on December 5, 2017, the Southern California energy system is operating at reduced flexibility due to a mix of natural gas pipeline outages, storage field limitations, and planned electric transmission line maintenance. We will post updates on these conditions as needed. In addition, EIA is monitoring the status and path of fires in Southern California on the Energy Disruptions map. December 6, 2017 CAISO adjusts natural gas generation offer rules to enhance Southern California electric reliability On December 6, 2017, the California Independent System Operator (CAISO) announced that it would increase the range of real-time, cost-based bids they expect from electricity generators to increase the reliability of the natural gas-fired electric generation needed to manage its system due to stress arising from energy delivery issues and the current wildfires near Los Angeles. CAISO is re-instating scalars, or adjustments, to the natural gas commodity price index, effectively adders applied to the natural gas commodity price used to calculate generator commitment costs and cost-based energy bids in CAISO’s real-time market. CAISO has authority from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to implement natural gas price scalars until November 30, 2018. CAISO increased the range of real-time, cost-based bids they expect from generators due to reliability issues outlined in the Aliso Canyon Winter Risk Assessment Technical Report 2017-18 Supplement as well as Southern California wildfires that may affect the reliability of the energy system. December 5, 2017 Ongoing infrastructure outages contributing to high Southern California spot natural gas prices Since early September 2017, many unrelated issues have affected the ability of the Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas) to receive, store, and deliver as much natural gas for its customers as in the past. These issues include planned and unplanned natural gas pipeline outages, local natural gas storage use restrictions, operational restrictions on regional electric transmission, and other infrastructure issues. Together, these events have had an effect on the SoCal Citygate benchmark natural gas price, the price for natural gas deliveries to the greater Los Angeles market inside of SoCalGas's service territory. The SoCalGas system is the main local distribution company serving Southern California. SoCal Citygate spot prices reflect recent high daily-average and monthly-average differentials (basis) to U.S. benchmark prices for natural gas at Henry Hub, Louisiana, despite year-over-year decreases in aggregate demand on the SoCalGas system. The increased price differences have resulted from the cascading pipeline restrictions. In the November 9, 2017 Southern California Daily Energy Report commentary, EIA reported how warmer-than-normal weather this fall has contributed to natural gas spot price volatility. Natural gas consumption (sendout) on the SoCalGas system was much lower than in prior years during the period between September 1 and December 4, 2017 (upper left chart). Even with episodes of much warmer-than-normal weather this fall, overall natural gas demand on the SoCalGas system was 7% lower than the same period in 2016. Despite lower natural gas demand, the daily average spot price at the SoCal Citygate from September 1 through December 4, 2017 averaged about $0.72 per million British thermal units ($/MMBtu) higher than prices at the Henry Hub. By comparison, prices at SoCal Citygate averaged about $0.01/MMBtu lower than the Henry Hub over the same time period in 2016, and the 2009–2016 SoCal Citygate basis to the Henry Hub for September 1 through December 4 averaged about $0.20/MMBtu. After reaching an all-time record basis of $9.65/MMBtu on October 24, 2017 because of periods of much warmer-than-normal weather combined with these infrastructure constraints, the spot price of natural gas at the SoCal Citygate has exceeded the spot price of natural gas at the Henry Hub by more than $1.00/MMBtu on 17 days between October 25, 2017 and December 4, 2017 (upper right chart). As of December 4, the spot price of natural gas at the SoCal Citygate was about $4.24/MMBtu, $1.40/MMBtu higher than the Henry Hub price. The chart below illustrates the relationship between natural gas demand on the SoCalGas system and the regional price of natural gas. This chart shows daily SoCal Citygate basis to the Henry Hub on the vertical axis with SoCalGas natural gas demand on the horizontal axis. The chart compares September 1 through December 4 prices and demand for 2016 and 2017. Despite the 7% lower average SoCalGas natural gas demand year-over-year, daily price premiums for natural gas delivered in the Los Angeles market in 2017 greatly exceeded levels from 2016 as a result of regional constraints affecting the Southern California energy market. Most of the natural gas supplied to Southern California comes from far-away basins in Canada, Wyoming, Texas, Colorado, and New Mexico. Consequently, the region is highly dependent on a network of interstate natural gas pipelines to bring natural gas to the SoCalGas pipeline system, through which it is transported to end-use customers. In some cases, natural gas is delivered directly to large end users directly by interstate pipeline systems. Together, these outages on the SoCalGas system and the pipelines that feed it have reduced SoCalGas's flexibility to respond to rapid or sizeable changes in natural gas demand. Some of the key natural gas pipeline and electric infrastructure outages recently affecting SoCalGas delivery to its customers include: Unplanned remediation work on the SoCalGas Line 3000 started in July 2016, and this work reduced receipt volumes at the California border near Topock/Needles by 540 million cubic feet per day (MMcf/d) and closed the line until May 2018. Unplanned outage on the Transportadora de Gas Natural de Baja California (TGN) pipeline interconnect at Otay Mesa because a natural gas quality issue prevented receipts between November 11 and December 1, 2017 and reduced gas flows into San Diego to zero during that period. Rupture on SoCalGas Line 235-2 in the North Needles Sub-Zone on October 1, 2017, with no estimated timeframe for repair, reduced deliveries to SoCalGas by 800 MMcf/d. Unplanned remediation work on SoCalGas Line 4000 in the Northern Zone started on September 18, 2017 and is expected to last until December 30, 2017, affecting movement of 740 MMcf/d. Planned repairs on SoCalGas Line 2000 at Ehrenberg/Blythe in the Southern Zone from December 5–15, 2017 will reduce natural gas movement by 200 MMcf/d, and from December 18–20, 2017 will reduce movement by 150 MMcf/d. Capacity reduction of 80 MMcf/d on the Mojave Pipeline Company system from December 1–December 18. Outages and operational restrictions on electric transmission lines and at key electric generating plants that are also contributing to use of natural gas, especially during high-demand periods in the mornings and evenings. These outages have affected the volume and location of natural gas flows into key receipt points on the SoCalGas system, as shown in the figure below. Typically, reductions in natural gas capacity availability or flexibility are offset by increased use of natural gas from local storage facilities. However, temporary restrictions on the level of natural gas withdrawals allowed from SoCalGas's Playa del Rey storage facility in Los Angeles have reduced natural gas flows by 260 MMcf/d. Along with winter protocols for using the Aliso Canyon storage complex, these restrictions have reduced the role these facilities might play in meeting volatile regional gas demand. On November 28, 2017, the Aliso Canyon Technical Assessment Group (ACTAG)—consisting of the California Public Utilities Commission, the California Energy Commission, the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, and the California Independent System Operator—issued a supplement to its 2016–17 winter technical report on energy system reliability because of the challenges in Southern California related to these outages. ACTAG stated that natural gas curtailments are more likely this winter than they were in winter 2016–17 because of these outages. Further, they noted a greater likelihood of the potential loss of natural gas service for non-core customers such as refineries, large hospitals, and manufacturing facilities. Some of the new mitigation options ACTAG cited included: Using more natural gas from Aliso Canyon compared to last winter Appealing for energy conservation measures Bringing liquefied natural gas (LNG) from Mexico through Otay Mesa ACTAG concluded that the reliability situation will depend largely on the weather. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's winter outlook for California predicts a warmer-than-normal winter for Southern California. The movements in the SoCal Citygate price relative to the Henry Hub since September 2017 reflect the market dynamics of meeting demand while facing supply constraints. Additional volatility in the natural gas spot market may occur in the event of winter curtailments, particularly on colder days with increased space heating demand. November 9, 2017 October SoCal Citygate natural gas spot prices were volatile The natural gas spot price difference between the SoCal Citygate and the Henry Hub—the national benchmark natural gas price—reached record highs in October 2017. Although, October price differentials between the SoCal Citygate and the Henry Hub exceeded $0.50 per million British thermal units($/MMBtu) just four times since 2008, they were more than $0.80/MMBtu over 11 consecutive days this October, reaching an all-time high (for any time of the year) of $9.65/MMBtu for delivery on October 24. Major factors accounting for the October price volatility at the SoCal Citygate—the primary natural gas trading point for the greater Los Angeles area—included: periods of warmer-than-normal temperatures coupled with an increased share of natural gas used for electric power generation; constrained electricity transmission from Northern California to Southern California; and constrained supply of natural gas because of pipeline outages and ongoing restrictions at the Aliso Canyon underground storage facilities. Record-high temperatures for October in Southern California lifted regional demand for electricity, and the share of natural gas-fired generation increased to meet this demand. Daily average temperatures throughout much of the state were more than 10 degrees above normal for this time of the year, but temperatures were especially high in the heavier electric-load zones along the coastal parts of California; daily high temperatures throughout Southern California exceeded 100 degrees on October 25. Electric power demand in SP15, the Southern California power market zone, averaged 15.7 GW in October 2017, however, with record temperatures on October 25, 2017, loads rose to 20 GW, or 27% higher than the October average. Southern California experienced three distinct periods of elevated temperatures in October, with the third period—including October 25—being the most extreme. These warmer-than-normal periods contributed to overall statewide average temperatures being above normal for the month. The latter two warm-weather periods were more prolonged and were closely associated with periods of increased electricity consumption, according to data from EnergyGPS. The incremental demand for power was met partly by increased consumption of natural gas at power plants—represented by thermal generation in the California Independent System Operator (CAISO) daily net generation supply stack. The 13-day average temperature for the October 1-13 time period was normal for this time of year, natural gas accounted for an estimated 34% of SP15's electric power generation. However, for the periods October 14-20 and October 21-29—the timeframes corresponding to the highest two periods of departure from normal temperatures—estimates for the shares of natural gas for electric power generation were 37% and 41%, respectively. At peak temperatures on October 25, natural gas represented 47% of the power generation share. Outages affecting natural gas pipelines and electric transmission lines contributed to the upward pressure on natural gas prices at the SoCal Citygate. For example, Line 235-2 of the Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas) pipeline system—a key pipeline for moving natural gas from the California border to the coast through the North Needles Subzone—has been out of service since October 2. Also, SoCalGas’s Line 4000 in the Northern Zone has been out of service for maintenance over the past several weeks and is not expected to be back in service until December 30, 2017. Derated electric transmission flows from the Pacific Northwest into California contributed to higher demand for natural gas at California generating plants, increasing natural gas demand. Despite challenging operating conditions during October 2017, SoCalGas natural gas inventories are currently about 68 billion cubic feet (Bcf), or more than 6 Bcf higher than a year ago. Each morning, EIA updates information concerning Southern California’s regional natural gas stocks and other market information in the Southern California Daily Energy Report . October 6, 2017 Southern California natural gas pipeline outage pauses regional storage injections On October 2, 2017, Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas), a Sempra Energy Utility, issued a critical notice that a key pipeline—Line 235-2 of the SoCalGas system in the North Needles Subzone—would be taken offline for repairs for an undetermined amount of time after an incident—currently under investigation—occurred near Newberry Springs, California. This outage stopped pipeline deliveries through the North Needles Subzone—a key corridor for bringing natural gas across the state to the North Coast Zone—constraining the supply of natural gas from Southeast California to Southwest California and limiting storage injections into SoCalGas storage facilities. The California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) authorized SoCalGas to resume limited storage injections at its Aliso Canyon facility on July 19, 2017. Since then, total system inventories rose at an average rate of 0.15 billion cubic feet per day (Bcf/d). According to public data from SoCalGas ENVOY, inventories this year surpassed last year's levels for the first time on September 26, a time when storage levels typically approach their maximums in Southern California. Between September 1–30 this year, aggregate daily natural gas load (sendout) on the SoCalGas system averaged 2.5 Bcf/d, and receipts at the Transwestern—North Needles point—natural gas destined to flow through the SoCalGas North Needles Subzone—offset sendout by about 25% over the same time period. Since the pipeline outage, SoCalGas has increased scheduled deliveries into Southern California on alternate routes. For example, deliveries to the El Paso—Ehrenberg receipt point—near Blythe, California—averaged 792 million cubic feet per day (MMcf/d) through September, but have averaged 1,039 MMcf/d since October 2, an increase of more than 30%. Spot prices for next-day delivery at the SoCal Citygate—a key regional natural gas trading hub—increased $0.45 per million British thermal units ($/MMBtu) following the force majeure event before peaking at $3.28/MMBtu, or $0.56/MMBtu higher than prices at the Henry Hub. (Henry hub serves as the national benchmark for natural gas prices.) Prior to the event, prices were closely following Henry Hub. Southern California border average prices remained below Henry Hub throughout the pipeline outage. At SoCal Citygate, the premium to the Henry Hub spot price decreased to $0.15/MMBtu as of October 5. According to SoCalGas estimates, storage injections may reach between 300–400 MMcf/d by October 8 but possibly decrease again in the following days. September 1, 2017 Heat and potentially record loads lift Southern California energy prices --> Temperatures are likely to rise above 100 degrees in many parts of Southern California on September 1, possibly resulting in record regional electricity loads. At about 10:00 a.m. Pacific Standard Time (PST), the California Independent System Operator, the electricity grid manager for most of California, was projecting a system peak record today of 50,869 megawatts (MW), eclipsing the record set on July 24, 2006 of 50,270 MW. Estimated natural gas send-out (demand) on the Southern California Gas system is set to exceed 3 billion cubic feet per day for a sixth day in a row. The spot price of natural gas at the Southern California Gas (SoCalGas) Citygate is $3.58 per million British thermal units (MMBtu) or $0.71/MMBtu higher than the spot price of natural gas at the national benchmark location—the Henry Hub. The average on-peak, electric power price today at the SP15 zone in Southern California topped $170 per megawatthour. Real-time prices for this afternoon could be significantly higher. A statewide Flex Alert has been issued for 1:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. (PST) this afternoon in California. July 21, 2017 California regulators grant conditional approval for limited natural gas storage injections at Aliso Canyon --> On July 19, the California Department of Conservation, Division of Oil, Gas, and Geothermal Resources (DOGGR) and the California Public Utility Commission (CPUC) announced that Southern California Natural Gas' (SoCalGas) Aliso Canyon Natural Gas Storage Field (Aliso) in the Porter Ranch neighborhood of the City of Los Angeles could commence limited operations after meeting certain safety, testing, and reporting milestones. According to the press release, SoCalGas has taken about 60% of the 114 wells at Aliso out of service and isolated those wells from the rest of the facility. Under new targets, CPUC mandated that SoCalGas manage working natural gas storage levels at Aliso so that they do not fall below 14.8 billion cubic feet (Bcf) or rise above 23.6 Bcf to protect public safety and prevent energy shortages. EIA estimates that the total working gas capacity at Aliso prior to these restrictions was 86.2 Bcf. SoCalGas was directed to reduce inventory levels at Aliso to 15 Bcf on January 21, 2016, and CPUC authorized SoCalGas to withdraw natural gas at Aliso only under particular protocols in a letter on June 2, 2016 to ensure reliable natural gas supplies and to prevent electric curtailments. EIA reported on its Southern California Daily Energy Report dashboard that working gas on the entire SoCalGas system was 53.2 Bcf on July 21, or about 8.2 Bcf lower than a year ago on this date. However, SoCalGas working gas inventory has increased about 13.8 Bcf since April 1. Analysts can track future changes to SoCalGas' storage inventories and other market fundamentals using EIA's Southern California Daily Energy Report . June 22, 2017 Temperature-driven increases in natural gas demand contribute to higher spot gas prices in Southern California Much hotter-than-normal temperatures in Southern California and the broader Southwest this week contributed to rising spot natural gas prices. Temperatures have exceeded normal ranges since June 14, and on June 21 temperatures were above 90 degrees in Burbank, California, topped 100 degrees in the inland valleys, and surpassed 120 degrees in the low desert. As a result, estimated natural gas demand, or send-out, on the Southern California Gas (SoCalGas) pipeline exceeded 3 billion cubic feet per day from June 19 – June 22. SoCalGas delivered more natural gas, in part, to meet the electricity demands of higher air-conditioning loads. Because of this higher demand, the price of natural gas at the SoCalGas Citygate—a natural gas trading point for the greater Los Angeles basin—rose to about $4.15 per million British thermal units (MMBtu) on June 21. The spot price of natural gas for delivery on June 21 into the Los Angeles market reflected a premium of about $1.28/MMBtu compared with the spot price of natural gas at the Henry Hub. This price was the highest local premium for natural gas at the SoCalGas Citygate relative to Henry Hub since early 2014 when several episodes of cold weather contributed to high natural gas prices. Moreover, this was the highest differential for a summer month since Ventyx Energy Velocity began reporting Intercontinental Exchange spot natural gas prices at the SoCalGas Citygate trading point in 2008. EIA commented earlier in June in the Southern California Daily Energy Report that SoCalGas underground natural gas storage inventories were lagging behind levels during the summer of 2016. June 5, 2017 SoCalGas working natural gas inventories currently 15 billion cubic feet lower than last year at this time According to the Southern California Energy Reliability Summary released on May 19, 2017, Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas) held roughly 14.8 billion cubic feet (Bcf) of working natural gas in its Aliso Canyon storage field as of May 1, 2017. Total working stocks at that time in all of SoCal's facilities were 41.4 Bcf. EIA's Southern California Daily Energy Report showed that as of June 5, total SoCalGas system working inventories were 46.9 Bcf, 15.3 Bcf (25%) lower than at this time last year and 46.5 Bcf (50%) lower than the five-year (2011–15) average at that time. On May 8, the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) directed SoCalGas to maximize storage injections at its remaining available storage facilities. Since May 8, total storage injections have averaged about 0.2 Bcf per day (Bcf/d). SoCalGas injected 0.3 Bcf into storage on May 24, the company's largest storage injection in 2017, according to data from IHS PointLogic. The CPUC highlighted the need to increase natural gas stored at SoCalGas's Honor Ranch, La Goleta, and Playa del Rey storage fields in the May 19 Aliso Canyon Mitigation Measure plan . Moreover, the Aliso Canyon Technical Assessment Group – which includes experts from the CPUC, California Energy Commission (CEC), the California Independent System Operator (CAISO), the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (LADWP), and SoCalGas hydraulic modeling support – kept in place mitigation measures adopted from the 2016 mitigation review and added a new initiative for 2017 requesting SoCalGas to maximize natural gas storage injections at non-Aliso storage facilities. November 21, 2016 EIA creates new winter edition of its daily energy dashboard for Southern California EIA has updated its Southern California Daily Energy Report to provide a "winter" edition of market information (the original "summer" edition also remains available from a pull-down menu bar at the top of the main dashboard). The dashboard includes important information that EIA regularly collects about energy operations and the management of electricity and natural gas systems in Southern California in the aftermath of a leak at the Aliso Canyon natural gas storage facility in October 2015. The leak has since been plugged but has resulted in continuing limitations on the use of that facility. The winter edition provides more details on natural gas activity than the summer edition, which focuses primarily on electricity markets that are the main source of summer demand for natural gas in the region. EIA updates the dashboard at about 7:00 a.m. Pacific Time every morning. Key elements in the winter dashboard include: Interstate natural gas pipelines and the Pacific Gas and Electric (PG&E) system deliver natural gas into the SoCalGas system. With less natural gas available from storage, deliveries to SoCalGas are likely to be more important this winter than in the past. This new chart shows daily deliveries of natural gas to each of SoCalGas' major receipt zones : Southern, Northern, and the Wheeler Ridge area. SoCalGas has firm access rights up to a total of 3.565 Bcf/d of natural gas from these three zones. However, this level would not be enough to meet demand on a peak winter day, so SoCalGas supplements these supplies with withdrawals from its four underground natural gas storage fields and modest amounts of natural gas produced in Southern California in its Coastal Zone and Line 85 Zone. Recent daily natural gas receipts and demand (sendout) help determine if daily non-storage sources of natural gas are sufficient to meet demand. Net daily changes in SoCalGas storage inventories show how storage injections and withdrawals balance demand for natural gas with available supplies. The annual trend in natural gas storage inventories in Southern California is compared with last year's inventory level at this time and with the previous five-year range. Lower storage levels relative to prior winters indicate how much less in-region stored natural gas is available to meet natural gas demand this winter. Although current restrictions do not allow natural gas injections into Aliso Canyon, on November 1, 2016, SoCalGas requested authorization from the California Public Utility Commission and the State Oil and Gas Supervisor (Division of Oil, Gas, and Geothermal Resources) to reinject natural gas at Aliso Canyon in some of the wells. Changes in spot natural gas prices can indicate constraints or disruptions in the natural gas system. Much higher-than-normal price differences between downstream (demand) market points, like the PG&E Citygate or the SoCal Citygate, and upstream (supply) market points, like in Western Wyoming, the San Juan Basin, or West Texas and Southern California border, can indicate conditions including wellhead freeze-offs, high market demand, cold weather in the Southwest, high use of pipeline networks, or unplanned outages on pipelines. This new daily chart shows how winter market fundamentals (supply, demand, and storage) can lead to price differences between the Southern California border and market and supply trading points relevant to Southern California. The "market" columns show how much higher the spot price of natural is at the SoCal Citygate or the PG&E Citygate compared with the SoCal Border. Conversely, the "supply" columns show how much higher the spot price of natural gas is at the SoCal Border compared with the supply areas of Western Wyoming, the San Juan Basin, and West Texas. California Citygate natural gas prices are usually higher than the natural gas price at the Southern California border because of the additional costs to transport natural gas from the border to the Citygate. The spot price of natural gas at the SoCal Border is usually higher than the spot price of natural gas at the upstream trading points to cover those transportation costs. However, these differences can be negative when other destination markets provide more value than the Citigates or Border. In those cases, the smaller-than-normal or negative difference signals that little gas is likely to be moving from the higher-priced source areas to the lower-priced California market. The previous 365-day and 30-day ranges only account for trade days within those ranges. As of now, data are not included in the EIA database. Southern California daily natural gas prices for 2015 and 2016 show the Southern California Border price. Higher prices at the SoCal Border can reflect periods of stress on the energy delivery systems. So far in 2016, prices have reflected mixed levels of stress. During the spring and early summer, natural gas prices were generally low. Nationally, the 2015–16 winter that was warmer than normal reduced the need to withdraw natural gas from underground storage facilities to operate natural gas-fired furnaces. This, in turn, lowered the need to buy natural gas in the spot market in early spring to backfill for depleted inventories. Relatively plentiful hydroelectricity, increased electricity imports, and more generation from solar and wind resources also eased demand for natural gas for electricity generation. There were several episodes of natural gas price volatility during summer 2016 when the local price of natural gas at the SoCal Border and the SoCal Citygate spiked temporarily. These price increases mostly resulted from warmer-than-normal temperatures coupled with pipeline constraints and reduced regional storage deliverability. Past actual temperatures and near-future forecasts of daily low and high temperatures are provided for Los Angeles . For the winter, temperatures are a good measure of likely furnace load for space heating needs, and Los Angeles is the center of the metropolitan area. These daily ranges are compared with normal ranges and with record ranges. Hourly electric load is summed across Southern California, including load by these utilities: Southern California Edison, Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, San Diego Gas and Electric Company, and the Imperial Irrigation District in the winter report. Historically, Aliso Canyon provided natural gas supply flexibility to manage variability in daily and hourly electricity demand. These levels are compared with historical ranges to show if the current load is high or low. The black line is the coincident peak load record. To have natural gas available to meet residential and commercial customer needs on the coldest days, electric utilities and grid managers may rely on electricity imports to a greater extent than when Aliso Canyon was fully operational and when SoCalGas had much higher levels of stored gas available. This new chart illustrates the role that electricity imports from the Pacific Northwest into California play in meeting Southern California's seasonal loads. The chart shows hourly electricity flows transmitted by the Bonneville Power Administration to CAISO along the Pacific DC Intertie. For yesterday, the chart shows the following information for the Pacific DC Intertie to CAISO path: total transfer capability, day-ahead flows, and actual flows for delivery to CAISO. For today, the chart shows the day-ahead flows from the Pacific DC Intertie to CAISO. Spot electricity prices at the SP15 trading point — the main zone for trading electricity in Southern California — are reported by hour. EIA uses CAISO's 15-minute data for SP15 across each of the four intervals per hour to derive average hourly prices for yesterday's day-ahead market and real-time market. This calculation also provides a schedule of the locational marginal prices (LMPs) for today's day-ahead by hour. Using hourly LMPs instead of daily, on-peak, average LMPs makes it easier to assess how changes in hourly loads and key hourly electricity imports align with changes in hourly prices. The chart lines do not show prices that exceed $100 per megawatthour, but users can see these prices by directing their keyboard pointer or mouse to the location on the chart where the prices exceeds the $100/MWh range. This updated regional map shows the key natural gas pipeline and storage infrastructure in Southern California. The map now includes a daily total of natural gas receipts from interstate and intrastate natural gas pipelines by major zones in the SoCalGas system. The map does not show the relatively modest amount of Southern California natural gas production flowing into the SoCalGas system, but these supplies are part of the overall natural gas receipts already reported in the dashboard's Natural Gas Receipts and Sendout chart. September 19, 2016 EIA releases new daily energy information for Southern California EIA's new dashboard , the Southern California Daily Energy Report, shows how electricity and natural gas are being managed in Southern California following the discovery of the leak at the Aliso Canyon natural gas storage facility in October 2015. The dashboard includes important information that EIA regularly collects about energy operations in Southern California. EIA updates the report at about 10:00 a.m. every morning. Key elements in the dashboard tab section include: Hourly electric load across Southern California, including details about that load by utilities including Southern California Edison, Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, San Diego Gas and Electric Company, and the Imperial Irrigation District. Historically, Aliso Canyon provided natural gas supply flexibility to manage variability in daily and hourly electricity demand. These levels are compared with historical ranges to show if a load is high or low. Past actual and near-future forecasts of daily low and high temperatures in Los Angeles . For the summer, temperatures are a good measure of likely electric load, and Los Angeles is the center of the metropolitan area. These daily ranges are compared to normal ranges and to record ranges to show whether temperatures are high or low. Recent daily natural gas receipts and sendout levels to determine if daily non-storage sources of natural gas are sufficient to meet demand. Net daily changes in aggregate SoCalGas storage inventories on the dashboard show how storage injections and withdrawals balance demand for natural gas with available supplies. The annual trend in natural gas storage inventories in Southern California is compared with last year's inventory level at this time and with the preceding five-year range for comparison. Restrictions do not allow natural gas injections into Aliso Canyon as of early September. The resulting gap in storage could limit storage inventory available to meet natural gas demand this winter. Southern California daily wholesale on-peak power and natural gas prices are graphed for 2015 and 2016. Prices in these actively traded markets reflect periods of stress on the energy delivery systems. So far in 2016, prices have reflected fairly low levels of stress because relatively plentiful hydroelectricity, imports, and renewable solar and wind sources have been able to meet electricity demand. A regional map shows pricing locations and utility service areas in Southern California. This data-heavy part of the report in PDF form can be printed as a one-page fact sheet. The content of the dashboard is likely to change over time as issues emerge, new data sources are identified, and our thinking evolves. Occasionally, we will include short posts in the Commentary tab that will include more details or explanations. For interested readers, the Commentary section also includes links to sources other than EIA such as the Department of Energy's Office of Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability' Energy Assurance Daily report, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's weather forecasts, and reports and data from the California Public Utilities Commission, the California Independent System Operator, and SoCalGas. Background articles Natural gas generation and electricity imports used to follow load in California , Today in Energy , September 7, 2016 California is using more renewables and less natural gas in its summer electricity mix , Today in Energy , September 6, 2016 Southern California natural gas inventories nearly flat this injection season , Today in Energy , August 9, 2016 Natural gas leak at California storage site raises environmental and reliability concerns , Today in Energy , February 1, 2016 Related links U.S. Energy Information Administration U.S. Electric System Operating Data Weekly Natural Gas Storage Report Wholesale Electricity and Natural Gas Market Data National Oceanic and Atmopsheric Administration 6-10 Day Temperature Outlook 8-14 Day Temperature Outlook Graphical Forecasts National Weather Service 7-day Forecast California Public Utilities Commission Aliso Canyon updates California Independent System Operator Open Access Same-time Information System (OASIS) Market Price Map Daily Renewables Watch Southern California Gas Aliso Canyon updates link appears to be broken; removed as per Chris Peterson; Rob Wright --> Well testing progress SoCalGas ENVOY --> About EIA Open Data Press Room Contact Us U.S. Energy Information Administration 1000 Independence Ave., SW Washington, DC 20585 Sources & Uses Petroleum Coal Natural Gas Renewable Nuclear Electricity Consumption Total Energy Topics Analysis & Projections Environment Markets & Finance Energy Disruptions Today in Energy Geography States Countries Maps Tools A-Z Index All Reports & Publications Data Tools, Apps, and Maps EIA Survey Forms EIA Beta Open Source Code Policies Privacy/Security Copyright & Reuse Accessibility Information Quality Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Learn about the Department of Energy’s Vulnerability Disclosure Program Related Sites U.S. Department of Energy USA.gov Stay Connected Facebook X Youtube Flickr LinkedIn Email Updates RSS Feeds