Launch of the WBG Country Partnership Framework for the Philippines 2025-2031 Who We Are News Speeches & Transcripts July 29, 2025 Launch of the WBG Country Partnership Framework for the Philippines, 2025-2031 Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Zafer Mustafaoğlu, World Bank Division Director for the Philippines, Malaysia, and Brunei Launch of the WBG Country Partnership Framework for the Philippines, 2025-2031 Malacañan Palace, Philippines Transcript Your Excellency President Ferdinand Marcos Jr., Magandang hapon sa inyong lahat (Good afternoon to you all)! On behalf of the World Bank Group, I extend our deepest gratitude for the opportunity to launch our new Country Partnership Framework (CPF) here in Malacañang. This marks a new chapter in our enduring partnership—one that began 80 years ago when the Philippines became a founding member of the World Bank. Today, after eight decades of resilience, growth, and transformation, the Philippines stands among the strongest performers in East Asia and the Pacific. The country is poised to achieve upper-middle-income status very soon. We at the World Bank Group are proud to have been part of this journey. Together, we have achieved impactful progress over the years. Today, we unveil the new Country Partnership Framework for 2025–2031. This Framework aligns closely with the Philippine Development Plan and it aims to support your administration’s bold reform agenda. The CPF responds to both emerging opportunities and persistent challenges . Despite progress, child stunting and students learning poverty remain high, many Filipinos work in informal jobs, and natural disasters push about a million people into poverty each year. Climate change adds to these challenges. The recent widespread flooding in the Philippines is one example in this regard. There is, however, reason for optimism!!! The Philippines has one of the youngest, most dynamic populations in the world. Today, the Philippines is the second fastest growing economy in the region. Digital economy is expanding. Green infrastructure and climate-smart investments can be powerful engines of jobs and competitiveness. This One World Bank Group CPF will focus on three transformative outcome areas: First, Empowering People through Better Health and Education We will invest in Universal Health Care, child nutrition, and primary care— helping 19 million more people access quality health services. We will support curriculum reform, teacher training, and digital platforms— reaching 15 million students with improved education . Second, Generating More and Better Jobs We will support policy and regulatory reforms to boost competitiveness, modernize agriculture, and expand digital infrastructure— bringing broadband access to 19 million more people. Through IFC investments (and MIGA guarantees), we aim to make the Philippines a stronger destination for investors, crowding in $2 billion in private capital Our goal is to help generate 4 million more and better jobs . Third, Building Resilience to Climate and Shocks We will support a modernized 4Ps program and expand adaptive social protection to cover 12.5 million beneficiaries. We will help 13 million people become more resilient to climate and disaster risks —through better infrastructure, climate-smart agriculture, and improved disaster risk financing. Finally, a central pillar of our strategy is also to strengthen public sector efficiency . Our goal is t o help 20 million more people access improved digital government services . Importantly, our role goes far beyond financing. We will strive to be your partner of first call for high-quality, timely, and relevant analytics and policy advice —drawing on the World Bank’s deep global knowledge and expertise. Ultimately, this CPF is not just a plan!... It is a joint commitment to ensure lasting change for Filipinos, so all benefit from a stronger, more inclusive and resilient economy. As I conclude, I would like to extend my deep gratitude to our counterparts Secretary Recto, Secretary Balisacan, and Secretary Pangandaman with whom we have had excellent partnerships. I would also like to recognize the great collaboration with all distinguished secretaries here today and express my sincere thanks to Secretary Herbosa, Secretary Tiu Laurel and Secretary Dizon. And I would like to thank Executive Secretary Bersamin for his excellent leadership, guidance and support. Your Excellency, Ladies and Gentlemen, As the Philippines moves forward with confidence and optimism, the World Bank Group remains fully committed to support a more prosperous, inclusive, and resilient nation. Maraming salamat, at mabuhay tayong lahat. Thank you! Related: Brief on the WBG Philippines Country Partnership Framework for July 2025-June 2031 Summary Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×