Eugenia A. Pyntikova Home Who We Are Experts Eugenia A. Pyntikova Eugenia A. Pyntikova Senior Counsel, SBS "" Contact Email : epyntikova@worldbank.org AREAS OF EXPERTISE Anti-Corruption Law and Justice Law Justice and Development Health Eugenia has been a member of the Sanctions Board Secretariat since October 2012. In her role as Senior Counsel, Eugenia advises Sanctions Board members and Executive Secretary on matters relating to ongoing proceedings, sanctions policy, and knowledge building. In 2022, Eugenia held the position of Integrity Counsel with the International Finance Corporation (on secondment), where she advised on integrity risks in potential IFC projects and managed the development of integrity assessment strategies in FCV contexts. Eugenia earned her law degree from Georgetown University Law Center where she graduated with multiple distinctions. Concurrently with her JD curriculum, Eugenia earned a Master’s Degree in Public Health from Johns Hopkins University, summa cum laude, where she focused on vaccine policy and humanitarian emergencies. Eugenia is a member of the Bar of the State of Virginia and a Certified Fraud Examiner. MORE FROM Eugenia A. Pyntikova Blogs Presentations Publications Marking the 15th anniversary of the Multilateral Development Banks Cross-Debarment Agreement Safeguarding Integrity in Development Finance: A Look at the World Bank Group’s Sanctions System (Part 1) Safeguarding Integrity in Development Finance: A Look at the World Bank Group’s Sanctions System (Part 2) C5 International Conference on Anti-Corruption (London) ACFE Namibia Conference International Law Institute Seminar – Procurement Integrity American University Washington College of Law – Anti-Corruption Law Summer Program Colloquium on Case Management at International Tribunals C5 International Conference on Anti-Corruption (Madrid) International Law Institute Seminar – Governance and Anti-Corruption Methods Towards New Governance. Strategies for Preventing Corruption: Law, Theory and Practice Conference at Osgoode Hall Law School at York University (Toronto) Exclusion and Rehabilitation: How Multilateral Development Banks Address Corrupt Behavior