As Climate Change Threatens, Water Cooperation Becomes Vital --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY As Climate Change Threatens, Water Cooperation Becomes Vital March 20, 2013 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> STORY HIGHLIGHTS Eighty-five percent of the world’s population lives on the driest half of the land, 783 million people do not have access to clean water, and 2.5 billion do not have access to adequate sanitation. The economic and health effects already being felt will be exacerbated by climate change and its effect on water ecosystems. Among the numerous challenges climate change will present to the world’s poorest citizens, its effects felt through water will be some of the most hard-hitting. The recent report Turn Down the Heat: Why a 4°C World Must Be Avoided , commissioned by the World Bank, provides a clear picture of the planet in a 4-degree-warmer world and the disruptive impact on agriculture, water resources, ecosystems, and human health. It reveals that between 43 percent and 50 percent of the global population will be living in water-scarce countries by the end of this century. As a consequence, there likely will be increasing aridity and drought in many developing countries. In the face of this, the theme of this year’s World Water Day on March 22 is the International Year of Water Cooperation . Although water scarcity is often viewed as a source of potential conflict, increasing pressure from a changing climate can also be harnessed to continue a well-established tradition of peaceful cooperation on water issues . Water at the heart of the adverse effects of climate change At the World Economic Forum in Davos this year, where a study cited the water supply crises as among the top 5 highest risks by likelihood and impact, World Bank Group President Jim Kim referred to water as “the teeth of climate change.” " Looking forward, it is clear that water management practices of the past are no longer adequate. Transformations in behavior, institutions, and policies will be at the center of governments', companies', and our attention. " Rachel Kyte Vice President for Sustainable Development, World Bank Climate change impacts are often experienced as water-related events, such as flooding, drought, or extreme storms. Extreme weather events associated with a changing climate carry both economic and human costs. Economic losses from recent floods in Thailand, Pakistan, and Australia were devastating: in Thailand alone, losses due to flooding in 2011 resulted in losses of approximately $45 billion, or about 13 percent of GDP. When considering the human costs of climate change, it will be those least able to adapt – the poor and most vulnerable – that will be hit the hardest. “Looking forward, it is clear that water management practices of the past are no longer adequate. Transformations in behavior, institutions, and policies will be at the center of governments', companies', and our attention,” said Rachel Kyte, the World Bank’s vice president for sustainable development. Poor sanitation conditions exacerbated by extreme weather events Roughly 2.5 billion people lack access to sanitation and one billion live without access to clean water, which leads to 4,000 child deaths per day from water-borne illnesses. Economic losses from lack of sanitation cost up to 7 percent of GDP in some countries. For communities whose residents defecate in the open, as over 1 billion people currently practice every day, flooding from extreme weather events has the potential to create an even more dangerous environment for children by increasing opportunities for diarrheal disease. Cooperation key to facing climate change By declaring 2013 as the International Year of Water Cooperation, the United Nations is drawing attention to a well-established history of disparate parties cooperating to solve water resource management issues. Eighty percent of the world’s rivers cross national boundaries. Hundreds of agreements on managing transboundary water exist, including 90 international water agreements to manage shared water basins in Africa. As climate change increases the volatility of water ecosystems, cooperation on access and stewardship of water resources will need to ensure human wellbeing and sustainable development. The World Bank commitment The World Bank’s push for sustainable development recognizes that water impacts food, education, energy, health, gender equity, and livelihoods, and that focusing solely on economic growth in the present and delaying environmental sustainability considerations to a future date, is increasingly untenable. The world is already facing an urgent water crisis, and the situation will likely worsen because of climate change. RELATED WORLD BANK Report: Turn Down the Heat: Why a 4°C World Must Be Avoided Report: Adaptation to a Changing Climate in Arab Countries Report: Reaching Across the Waters: Facing the Risk of Cooperation in International Waters Blog: 1 River Basin, 9 Countries, 1 Vision Blog: Lessons Learned from Water Cooperation in the Nile Basin Blog: What's Happening to Water in the Arab World? Blog: Reflections on World Water Day 2013: A Water-Rich Africa EXTERNAL Report Series: Economics of Sanitation Water Partnership Program Water and Sanitation Program MULTIMEDIA Video VIDEO Why Is Water Critical for Ending Poverty? Home Climate Change East Asia Pacific Europe and Central Asia Latin America and Caribbean Home South Asia Health Water View More + Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.