East Asia Pacific – A Region At Risk --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News Infographic East Asia Pacific – A Region At Risk June 3, 2013 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Rapidly growing cities are becoming increasingly vulnerable to disasters in the East Asia Pacfic region due to poor planning, with economic losses increasing dramatically as the region grows wealthier. This infographic visualizes some of the findings from the World Bank report, Strong, Safe and Resilient – A Strategic Policy Guide for Disaster Risk Management in the East Asia and the Pacific . Press release : Losses from Disasters in East Asia and Pacific Raise Concerns for Poverty Reduction Feature : Key report findings Click the image for FULL RESOLUTION . East Asia Pacific Climate Change RELATED WORLD BANK Disaster Risk Financing and Insurance Program (DRFI) Disaster Risk Management in East Asia Pacific Region EXTERNAL View the infographic on Visually Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.