Banks and Clients Benefit from Investments in Afghanistan's Financial Infrastructure --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Banks and Clients Benefit from Investments in Afghanistan's Financial Infrastructure November 10, 2015 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> STORY HIGHLIGHTS The recent establishment of the Public Credit Registry to determine the credit performance of borrowers has significantly improved access to financing of small and medium enterprises. The Public Credit Registry is an electronic online system, operated and managed by Da Afghanistan Bank, the central bank of Afghanistan. Da Afghanistan Bank’s work to enable transparency and efficiency in the credit granting process is supported by the World Bank Group’s International Development Association and International Financial Corporation, and co-financed by Harakat as part of efforts to modernize Afghanistan’s financial system. KABUL CITY, Kabul Province – Bank officer Mir is busy running an online inquiry of a company’s credit history, which he knows will only take a few minutes. “Prior to the deployment of the Public Credit Registry system, verification of a customers’ credit history would take weeks or months, but now it is only a button click away,” says Mir, who works at the private Afghanistan International Bank (AIB). Mir has become much more productive after the deployment of the electronic Public Credit Registry (PCR), which allows banks to view the credit history of credit applicants, obtain credit scores, and make informed credit decisions based on the information available online. He recently received training on the new PCR system at Da Afghanistan Bank (DAB), Afghanistan’s central bank, which operates and manages the electronic online system. With the implementation of the PCR, bank customers are able to obtain free annual credit reports, enabling them to better understand their financial position. Rumi Consultancy/World Bank DAB championed the establishment and implementation of the PCR system to enable transparency and efficiency in the credit granting process and to foster financial system stability. It was launched to tackle the challenges of credit allocation facing banks and other small financial institutions. The World Bank Group’s International Development Association (IDA) and International Financial Corporation (IFC) provided extensive support to DAB on the deployment and implementation of the system, with co-financing from Harakat . The PCR system became fully operational in 2014 and is now utilized by all commercial banks and two microfinance institutions. More than 108,000 contracts were registered in the PCR system, as of May 2015. Through the PCR system, bank customers benefit from a faster credit process as well as a better understanding of their finances. With the implementation of the PCR, bank customers are able to obtain free annual credit reports, enabling them to better understand their financial position. System meets customer needs Dr. Niazi, director of a construction company, is an active customer of Azizi Bank and had taken a loan worth $1 million to implement a project contract with the municipality. “Before installation of the PCR system, obtaining loans from banks would take two to three months while now it takes only 7 to 10 days,” he says. Dr. Niazi has been able to obtain a bank loan three times. Whereas previously he would sometimes fall behind in his work schedule due to the lengthy time required for loan approval and processing, this is now no longer a problem. The PCR system has not only increased customer confidence but also bank confidence in the credit process. RELATED WORLD BANK International Development Association (IDA) International Financial Corporation (IFC) World Bank South Asia on Facebook @WorldBankSAsia EXTERNAL Da Afghanistan Bank (DAB) Harakat Afghanistan Home Financial Inclusion Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.