World Bank to Finance New Hydropower Development in Burundi --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY World Bank to Finance New Hydropower Development in Burundi April 22, 2014 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> STORY HIGHLIGHTS The US$100 million Jiji and Mulembwe hydropower project was approved today. It will help boost electricity supply for jobs, growth and competitiveness in Burundi. The Jiji and Mulembwe hydropower project will finance the construction of two hydropower stations of combined 48 megawatts capacity The overall objective is to provide Burundians with affordable, clean, reliable, and sustainable energy. WASHINGTON, April 22, 2014 – The World Bank Group’s Board of Executive Directors today approved a US$100 million grant to the Republic of Burundi for the Jiji and Mulembwe hydropower project. Sub Saharan Africa (SSA) is suffering from a sustained and chronic power crisis. Only 31 percent of the population has access to electricity, leaving nearly 600 million people without energy access. In Burundi, only four percent of the ten million-large population currently has access to electricity, marking some of the lowest access rates anywhere in the world. The development objective of the Jiji-Mulembwe hydropower project is to increase the supply of clean and low-cost hydropower electricity to Burundi’s national grid. The project will almost double the installed generation capacity in Burundi. An important aim of the project is to provide technical assistance for strengthening the publicly-owned electricity and water production and distribution company, REGIDESO, so that it is better equipped to sustainable manage the construction and operate and maintain the hydropower facilities. In addition, the project will finance power sector reforms and institutional development. The Jiji-Mulembwe hydropower project brings together a coalition of donors that includes the African Development Bank, European Investment Bank, European Union, the Government of Burundi and REGIDESO. The total cost of the project is US$270.4 million. As efforts intensify to narrow the electricity deficits that are constraining job-led growth and economic competitiveness in Sub-Saharan Africa, projects such as the Jiji-Mulembwe hydropower project can serve as a platform for boosting energy access. This project complements earlier projects financed by the World Bank such as Rusumo Falls and rehabilitation efforts underway for the Ruzizi I and II projects. Taken together, these efforts are needed to meet the bold targets set by the Sustainable Energy for All initiative. RELATED WORLD BANK Press Release: World Bank to Finance New Hydropower Development in Burundi Fact sheet: Jiji and Mulembwe Hydropower Project MULTIMEDIA Video VIDEO Boosting Electricity Supply for Jobs, Growth and Competitiveness in Burundi Home Burundi Trade Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.