World Bank Group Executive Directors Visit Chile to Learn About Advances in Water Transition and Energy Security Who We Are News This page in: English Español This page in: English Español PRESS RELEASE September 9, 2025 World Bank Group Executive Directors Visit Chile to Learn About Advances in Water Transition and Energy Security Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Santiago, September 11, 2025 - A delegation of Executive Directors from the World Bank Group visited Chile this week to learn about the country's progress on green energy transition and water security. The delegation, representing 59 countries and 31% of the board, met with public and private sector officials to learn about Chile's experience in electromobility, green hydrogen, critical minerals, and desalination. Chile is advancing policies for energy transition, climate resilience, and green growth, with a focus on renewable energies, clean mining, and green hydrogen. "These industries are a driver for growth and job creation, and their development requires public-private collaboration," said Finance Minister Nicolás Grau, while appreciating the support that the World Bank Group provides to the country in this challenge. The delegation's spokesperson, Nathalie Francken, acknowledged Chile's efforts in promoting gender equality and its global relevance: “ Chile is showing how bold policies on green energy and climate resilience can translate into real opportunities for sustainable growth. Our visit allows us not only to support these efforts but also to bring Chile’s lessons to the global stage, where many countries are grappling with the same challenges. ” The delegation will continue its regional tour with a visit to Argentina. PRESS RELEASE NO: 09.09.2025 Contacts Santiago, Chile. Rossana Luco +56 9 75592829 rlucorepossi@worldbank.org RELATED World Bank Chile Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×