Updates - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Updates Previous 1 … 13 14 Open Data: A History April 4, 2013 By Data.gov admins This term "open data" is becoming increasingly commonplace. That's what Data.gov is all about. But what is open data? A new article in the Paris Tech Review offers a snapshot of how open data was born, its evolving purpose, and… Continued One Click and We'll Give You Millions February 21, 2013 By Data.gov admins While Data.gov lists its holdings at almost 400,000 datasets, the fact is, Data.gov is the link to millions of public datasets. Many Federal agencies post their data collections on Data.gov as single entities. In addition, Data.gov is host to tools,… Continued CKAN: the Horizon for Data.gov 2.0 January 28, 2013 Recently, we marked another milestone in Data.gov's evolution. Members of the Open Knowledge Foundation met in Washington, D.C., with the Data.gov team and Federal Agencies to discuss the next iteration of Data.gov. Within months, Data.gov will see major enhancements around… Continued APIs December 7, 2012 By Debra Peters Data.gov doesn’t just catalog raw data, it also includes APIs from across government. You can [browse the current catalog for APIs](https://catalog.data.gov/dataset?q=-aapi+api+OR++res_format%3Aapi), but expect this listing to grow as agencies … Continued Cities – Policies November 8, 2012 The data on Cities.Data.gov is brought together from many official government sites. The policies for the release of those data vary from one city to another. Below you can find the detailed policies and developer resources for each catalog in … Continued 10 Big Data Sites to Watch – By Gil Press | Foreign Policy October 26, 2012 Data.gov, which was launched by the Obama administration as part of its Open Government Initiative in 2009, offers access to data generated by the Executive Branch of the Federal Government. Enterprising government agencies and private citizens have built on the… Continued Data.gov Celebrates Third Anniversary June 13, 2012 May 21, 2012 marks the third anniversary of the U.S. government's open data site, Data.gov. The first national open data site, Data.gov led the way in opening government data around the world. Now 30 countries host open data sites and… Continued Data.gov CKAN Catalog June 11, 2012 Data.gov is pleased to announce the launch of a new data catalog on an open source data management system called CKAN used by the data portals of the U.K., Germany, Brazil, and a number of other governments around the world.… Continued Previous 1 … 13 14 About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov