Transforming Challenges into Action: Advancing Universal Health Coverage in Latin America and the Caribbean Who We Are News This page in: English Español This page in: English Español FEATURE STORY December 11, 2024 Transforming Challenges into Action: Advancing Universal Health Coverage in Latin America and the Caribbean Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina One of the health projects supported by the World Bank in Haiti. Investment in robust, resilient, and equitable health systems not only improves the quality of life for millions of people but also strengthens human capital and contributes to the region's sustainable economic development. Visiting the doctor can be daunting. In Latin America and the Caribbean, this experience often involves more than just confronting personal fears—such as undergoing certain diagnostic tests. It can also bring significant financial strain, particularly for the region’s poorest families. An unexpected health issue, especially a chronic disease, can place a long-term burden on household budgets. This was the case for Guillermo Frías, a resident of Villa Burruyacú, a small town in northwestern Argentina. During a hospital visit, doctors discovered his high blood sugar levels. Further tests confirmed the diagnosis: diabetes—a condition affecting 9.9% of the region’s population . Fortunately, the treatment turned out to be simpler than Guillermo expected. “After the tests, I was able to get all my treatment at the same center, receive my medications, and learn how to eat healthier”, he explains. Ensuring that patients like Guillermo can access the medical care they need without financial hardship is a core goal of Plan Sumar, a key initiative of the Argentine government . With World Bank support since 2004, this project has already reached 17.5 million people, providing access to integrated, quality health services. After the tests, I was able to get all my treatment at the same center, receive my medications, and learn how to eat healthier Guillermo Frías A patient benefited from the SUMAR program in Argentina. Argentina’s initiative is just one of 28 World Bank-supported health projects across Latin America and the Caribbean. With total investments of $3.9 billion, these efforts form part of a global mission to deliver quality, affordable healthcare to 1.5 billion people by 2030. Building Resilience in Healthcare The region still faces significant challenges in achieving universal access to high-quality healthcare services. Public health systems often suffer from fragility, underfunding, and fragmentation, which hinder their effectiveness. The COVID-19 pandemic starkly exposed these weaknesses. On average, countries in the region spend just $1,155 per capita on health—only a quarter of the average expenditure in OECD countries. As a result, households often bear higher out-of-pocket costs. In Peru, for instance, 30 % of the population experienced impoverishing medical expenses in 2020. Access to healthcare is vital for reducing poverty, ensuring a healthier workforce, and safeguarding family incomes. Argentina’s Plan Nacer, for example, contributed to a 50 % reduction in infant mortality between 2003 and 2022. Initially focused on maternal and child health, the program—supported by the World Bank—later expanded to include other vulnerable populations. It led to increased prenatal and postnatal check-ups for mothers. Manuela Rosales, a young mother from Carmen de Areco, recounts the attentive care she received during her two pregnancies. “I was able to access all the services I needed before and after giving birth. The hospital staff regularly checked on me and made sure I got prompt appointments,” she shares. Accessible and efficient healthcare must be sustained throughout the life cycle, particularly as chronic and non-communicable diseases—such as cardiovascular issues, cancer, diabetes, and obesity—become global challenges. These conditions claim the lives of 15 million people annually before the age of 70. In Chile, the Program for Universal Primary Healthcare Coverage and Resilience, supported by the World Bank since 2023 , aims to strengthen primary care services for all, regardless of insurance status. It also promotes telemedicine and builds new clinics in rural areas. Similarly, in Saint Lucia, an IDA-backed initiative launched in 2018 aims to register 100,000 citizens—over half the population—with the national health service. The project also enhances primary healthcare facilities to detect infectious diseases early. Preparing for Future Health Crises Strengthening health systems is crucial to maintaining effective services during periods of high demand, such as during the COVID-19 pandemic . To this end, the World Bank supports efforts to bolster primary care across the region. Projects include upgrades to 250 health centers in the Dominican Republic and expanded telemedicine services. For example, in Pacora, Panama, Ileana Chacón—who has diabetes and hypertension—benefits from these services. “I don’t have to miss work anymore to see a doctor. I can monitor my blood pressure and blood sugar from home and consult my doctor by phone,” she says. Like her, over 60,000 patients with chronic conditions receive telemedicine care in 12 of Panama’s 16 health regions. Subtitles in English available. Brazil and Costa Rica have also implemented electronic health records, improving efficiency and ensuring universal coverage. Digital systems not only streamline healthcare delivery but also help patients access other social benefits, such as maternity allowances. “We used to spend 80% of our time compiling data and only 20% making decisions. Now, it’s the opposite,” notes Jessidenes Leal, a health statistician in Salvador, Brazil. Jessidenes Leal, known as Jessi, strategic projects manager at the Municipal Health Secretariat in Salvador, Brazil Strong, resilient, and equitable health systems improve quality of life, build human capital, and drive sustainable economic growth. Ensuring that families like Guillermo Frías, Manuela Rosales, and Ileana Chacón can access timely and local healthcare is a vital step toward a healthier and more inclusive future for all. RELATED Explore more on how the World Bank's shift from crisis response to building health system resilience in Latin America and the Caribbean​ Learn more about our work in the region through the campaign 'We Take Action' . Discover the progress of the the World Bank - PAHO Lancet Regional Health Americas Commission This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×