Restoring and Transforming Ukrainian Railways for a Better Future Who We Are News This page in: English Українська This page in: English Українська FEATURE STORY January 21, 2025 Restoring and Transforming Ukrainian Railways for a Better Future Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Ukrainian Railways (Ukrzaliznytsia), Ukraine’s state-owned rail company, has been the backbone of the country’s economy since Russia’s invasion in February 2022. The rail service has been evacuating millions of people from the frontline regions, delivering goods to all corners of the country, and exporting grain abroad to help sustain global food security. “At the time when everything stopped, when the airlines halted flights to Ukraine, Ukrainian Railways remained the key lifeline, not just for passenger movement, but also for cargo and our economy," recalls Oleksandr Pertsovsky, CEO of Ukrainian Railways. But with constant attacks on critical infrastructure, Ukrainian Railways endures daily strikes, leaving the railway network repeatedly damaged. At least 126 railway stations and over 500 km of tracks have been damaged as of November 2024. Restoring and increasing carrying capacity is vital to ensure essential goods reach both communities and businesses. Through its Repairing Essential Logistics Infrastructure and Network Connectivity (RELINC) project , the World Bank and partners are helping to restore critical rail and road connections, as well Ukraine’s Danube ports operations. RELINC is financed by a $280 million grant from the Ukraine Relief, Recovery, Reconstruction and Reform Trust Fund (URTF) . Emergency Repairs Through RELINC, Ukrainian Railways procured 18 sets of modular bridges and close to 90 pieces of equipment, including loaders, excavators, heavy-duty truck cranes, dump trucks, drilling rigs, truck-mounted concrete pumps, and other tools needed to repair and maintain the railway infrastructure. This equipment was used to restore 17 destroyed railway bridges and repair more than 80 engineering structures, reconnecting communities that were cut off during the invasion. It was delivered through the United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) . With this equipment, Ukrainian Railways was able to restore train service between regions and within liberated territories, which previously had been cut off. It has allowed the company to restore damaged tracks and engineering structures three times faster and carry out this work without relying on contractors. "The use of the equipment has yielded results. In fact, we can say that a significant part of the work would have been more complicated or virtually impossible without this equipment,” says Ihor Yavnyi, Ukrainian Railways Deputy Head of Department of Tracks and Constructions. “The staff are extremely satisfied. It’s a completely different experience working with modern excavators compared to those from the 1980s. This equipment not only improves working conditions but also boosts motivation among the team." Ensuring Food Security and Export In addition to equipment, Ukrainian Railways also received 200 flatbed wagons to increase its cargo and export capacity, especially considering war-time restrictions on sea transport. “Given the constraints of sea transportation, the primary goal of flatbed wagons is to help boost the country's export capacity. By using flatbed wagons for container transport, we can export goods, particularly grain, to other countries via European border crossings. Conversely, we can also receive humanitarian aid and other essential supplies,” highlights Yurii Niemchykov, director of the Ukrainian Railways corporate finance department. The delivery of flatbed wagons to transport cargo containers will enhance the freight capacity of Ukrainian Railways, enabling the country to better meet the demands of its economy. Building Bridges with Europe The Ukrainian government seeks to transform the railway infrastructure in the western part of the country and adapt it to European standards—replacing the 1520-mm broad-gauge track commonly used throughout the countries of the former Soviet Union. Ukraine has begun construction of a 1435-mm European railway gauge from Chop, a town along the western border, to Uzhhorod. The opening of a 22-kilometer European-standard railway is planned for mid-2025. “This will connect the regional center of Uzhhorod with the rest of Europe, which has never happened in Ukraine. We are using the war as something that can open up new opportunities,” says Pertsovsky. Adapting the European railway gauge is expected to increase the capacity of railway lines to the EU and allow local logistical hubs to gain a substantial portion of the added value from rail trans-shipment operations. Accelerating the modernization of Ukraine's railway connections is essential considering the prospect of EU membership. "It will show businesses across Europe and worldwide that Ukraine is open for business. There are opportunities. There are reasons to adapt their products for the Ukrainian market,” emphasizes Pertsovsky. “This is important for investors' confidence, for the future, for the new economy of Ukraine." RELATED Ukraine Relief, Recovery, Reconstruction and Reform Trust Fund (URTF) The World Bank in Ukraine Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×