Bernard Harborne Announced as World Bank Group Resident Representative for Solomon Islands and Vanuatu Who We Are News PRESS RELEASE July 2, 2025 Bernard Harborne Announced as World Bank Group Resident Representative for Solomon Islands and Vanuatu Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina HONIARA, July 2, 2025 – Starting from July 1, Bernard Harborne becomes the World Bank Group Resident Representative for Solomon Islands and Vanuatu. This position brings together the World Bank Group’s country-level leadership to better support the development priorities of the governments and help create an enabling environment for private sector growth. Harborne will lead the programs of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)/ International Development Association (IDA), International Finance Corporation (IFC), and Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) across the two countries, providing a single point of contact for access to the full breadth of World Bank Group products and services. This will enhance the institutions’ ability to address global challenges, and drive development with speed, efficiency, and impact. "Solomon Islands and Vanuatu stand on the cusp of a remarkable transformations. I am very pleased to be able to work with the governments of these countries to help unlock opportunities for growth, jobs, and stability. It will be an honor to support nations that are so determined to build a more prosperous, resilient future for all,” said Bernard Harborne, World Bank Group Resident Representative for Solomon Islands and Vanuatu. The World Bank Group’s work in Solomon Islands and Vanuatu is focused on transformative infrastructure projects such as the Solomon Islands Roads and Aviation Project, the Vanuatu Climate Resilient Transport Project, and the nation-building Tina River Hydropower Development Project in Solomon Islands. The institution also supports work in health, private sector development, and urban employment and skills building to drive jobs and growth. A British national, Bernard Harborne joined the World Bank Group in 2004 as a lead technical specialist. He worked on major investment operations focused on local community development and demobilization of ex-combatants in war-to-peace transitions such as Afghanistan, Burundi, and Somalia, among others. He served as Country Manager in Côte d’Ivoire and as Resident Representative in Timor-Leste, where he supported the government’s post-pandemic economic recovery and fostered a World Bank Group approach to development in the country. About the World Bank Group : The World Bank Group has a bold vision: to create a world free of poverty on a livable planet. In more than 100 countries, the World Bank Group provides financing, advice, and innovative solutions that improve lives by creating jobs, strengthening economic growth, and confronting the most urgent global development challenges. The World Bank Group is one of the largest sources of funding and knowledge for developing countries. It consists of the World Bank, including the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association (IDA); the International Finance Corporation (IFC); the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA); and the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID). For more information, please visit www.worldbank.org , www.miga.org , and www.ifc.org . PRESS RELEASE NO: 2026/003/EAP Contacts In Jakarta Tyagita Silka Hapsari +1 202 369 0773 thapsari@ifc.org In Sydney Hamish Wyatt +61 450 517534 hwyatt@worldbank.org In Washington --> In Washington Geetanjali Chopra gchopra@worldbank.org RELATED World Bank in Pacific Islands World Bank in East Asia and Pacific Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×