Nearly Twenty Canadian Companies Sign On to Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Nearly Twenty Canadian Companies Sign On to Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition July 15, 2016 This page in: English Français Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Canada’s Minister of Environment Catherine McKenna meets with business leaders from across the Canadian economy who have committed to being private sector partners of the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC). STORY HIGHLIGHTS Nearly Twenty Canadian companies sign on to join the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition today The move spurred by Canada sets an example for others Key actors across the country are together shaping Canada’s approach to carbon pricing Nearly twenty Canadian companies signed on today to join the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC) , which brings together governments, businesses and civil society groups to identify and address the key challenges to successfully using carbon pricing as a way to combat climate change. Canada’s Minister of Environment Catherine McKenna personally worked with the companies to draw their attention to the costs – and potential opportunities – of putting a price on carbon pollution. " We are delighted that major Canadian companies in a wide range of sectors – from finance to forest products, from retail to major airlines – are becoming partners of the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition. We know that carbon pricing is the most efficient way to reduce emissions and stimulate investments in green infrastructure and low-carbon innovation. It is vital that leading companies from all industries become engaged in the transition towards a lower carbon economy. " Catherine McKenna Minister of the Environment and Climate Change - ‎Government of Canada The move, which marks the largest number of companies joining the CPLC at one time, was welcomed by Feike Sijbesma, CEO of Royal DSM, and co-chair of the CPLC. “Canada has been a true leader in our coalition,” he said. The country has done a remarkable job at the levels of the Federal Government, the provinces, and individual companies to focus on carbon pricing. It helps sets a standard for others to emulate and expand on.” The World Bank Group’s Senior Director for Climate Change, John Roome, said the moves illustrate growing momentum to deliver on countries’ national plans to bring down emissions under the Paris climate change agreement. “To help bring down damaging greenhouse gas emissions, more than 90 countries included moves for putting a price on carbon pollution in their national climate plans for Paris. Now with more companies joining the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition, we’re seeing the groundswell of support growing for pricing damaging emissions.“ As Canada moves to take on climate change, two key challenges it faces are figuring out how best to charge carbon polluters, and how to most effectively use the revenues that are generated. Several provinces already have full-fledged cap-and-trade or tax schemes, while others are only now getting started. At the same time, a host of companies are looking at different ways to introduce internal carbon pricing. The federal government and the provinces are working together to agree on actions to meet ambitious commitments in their INDC, the national plan prepared for the Paris climate change agreement, and decide what to do next on carbon pricing and markets. British Columbia, which established a carbon tax in 2008, levies a tax of $21 per ton of CO2e emissions. The province is now home to a growing clean technology sector, with more than 200 companies generating an estimated $1.7 billion in revenues annually. Ontario, with temperatures at the southern end of the province projected to increase by 4C, and the northern half by about 8C over the next 30 years, is now gearing up its carbon pricing efforts. “Through collaboration and innovation, Ontario, along with other subnational governments, is taking bold action to reduce greenhouse gas pollution,” said Ontario Minister of Environment and Climate Change Glen Murray . “We applaud the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition’s approach to fostering a prosperous low-carbon economy through activities such as building and sharing a strong case for carbon pricing, mobilizing business support and working with a broad range of partners to make a positive difference.” “ While the wheels are in motion within Canada, the country is also looking across its borders, through efforts like the CPLC, to engage with others. “It’s great to be part of the World Bank’s Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition,” McKenna said. " Getting business to be working with governments in terms of tackling climate change is really how we’re going to make progress.” Canada Climate Change Trade RELATED WORLD BANK Website: Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition Feature Story: A look at Carbon Pricing and Competitiveness Feature Story: Continuing Momentum for Putting a Price on Carbon Pollution Feature Story: When It Comes to Emissions, Sweden Has Its Cake and Eats It Too Feature Story: Dutch Company Royal DSM Prices Carbon to ‘Future Proof’ Its Business EXTERNAL Read: Joint Statement by the Government of Canada MULTIMEDIA Video VIDEO Carbon Emissions: Get Inspired to Act! Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.