Embracing Climate-Smart Growth is a Net Win for Uganda Who We Are News PRESS RELEASE September 11, 2025 Embracing Climate-Smart Growth is a Net Win for Uganda Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina KAMPALA, September 11, 2025 –Without strong action, climate change could cut Uganda's economic growth by up to 3.1% by 2050, pushing more than 613,000 people into poverty and turning 12 million more into internal migrants. The Country Climate and Development Report (CCDR) for Uganda , published by the World Bank Group and launched today in Kampala, examines the country’s vulnerability to climate change and outlines interventions to mitigate its impacts. The report highlights serious risks from climate change, including a drop in overall labor productivity up to 2.4% due to heat stress, threats to 21% of the electricity network, and annual road damages costing as much as $26 million. To address these challenges, it recommends a shift toward climate-resilient, low-carbon growth through coordinated actions across sectors, focusing on building resilience among Uganda’s youth and low-income earners while strengthening agriculture, energy, infrastructure, and urban development. "Uganda faces a critical moment as the 14 th most climate-vulnerable country," said Qimiao Fan, World Bank Division Director for Kenya, Rwanda, Somalia, and Uganda . "Climate action is not only essential but offers an opportunity to redefine the country's development trajectory. The CCDR provides a roadmap for integrating climate consideration into national policies and investments, ensuring that growth is sustainable, inclusive, and climate resilient.” To achieve climate-positive growth, the report recommends four multisectoral intervention packages, backed by economy-wide measures and strong private sector engagement. “Private investment in climate-smart agriculture, solar irrigation, renewable energy, e-mobility, and green building can enhance food security, energy access, and livable cities—while creating jobs and driving economic growth,” said Mary Porter Peschka, International Finance Corporation (IFC) Division Director for Eastern Africa . “By fostering private engagement in climate-resilient projects, Uganda can build a greener and more prosperous future." The four intervention packages recommended by the report are: Boost resilience through jobs for youth and services for the poor: Expand shock-responsive social protection; digital financial services, including insurance; and access to water, sanitation, hygiene, and climate-resilient health systems. Promote education and job placement for climate-resilient occupations. Advance sustainable agriculture and natural resources: Increase irrigation without depleting water sources; improve livestock productivity while reducing methane emissions; protect natural resources; reduce unsustainable firewood use and charcoal production and accelerate the adoption of clean cooking technologies. Invest in climate-smart infrastructure: Scale renewable energy (hydro, solar) to meet growing demand; expand climate-resilient transport and digital connectivity to underserved populations; support sustainable mining of energy transition minerals; and improve logistics and transport infrastructure systems to leverage in a low-carbon economy. Plan for climate-positive urbanization: Incorporate climate change projections and risks into urban planning and infrastructure design; support decentralization of decision-making regarding climate action; promote e-mobility, green building materials, and better transport systems to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The report also calls for coordinated climate action across government, private sector, communities and partners. Key actions include: Implementing Uganda’s National Climate Finance Strategy. Integrating climate considerations into public procurement, public-private partnerships, fiscal policies, and financial regulations. Strengthening disaster risk management and legal frameworks for crisis management. Adapting trade policies to access international and regional markets for low-carbon goods and services. Expanding real time climate data collection and early warning systems and making them user friendly for households, communities, and firms. Enhancing private sector engagement through carbon markets, green finance, affordable insurance, and innovative climate financing. About the Climate and Development Reports The World Bank Group has introduced Country Climate and Development Reports (CCDRs) as a core tool for integrating climate and development. CCDRs assist countries in identifying and prioritizing actions that address adaptation needs and greenhouse gas emissions in ways that align with broader development objectives. These reports provide data, research, cost assessments, and suggest priority actions to facilitate a resilient and low-carbon transition. They are intended to guide governments, the public, private sector, partners, and The World Bank Group's engagements to enhance funding for effective climate action. Contacts: In Kampala, Bernard Tabaire btabaire@worldbankgroup.org PRESS RELEASE NO: 2026/010/AFR RELATED Download Infographic PDF World Bank in Uganda Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×