Job Trends: Home --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Understanding Poverty Topics Poverty publication Job Trends: Home Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> In the latest issue... Employment growth dropped to 0.9 percent, while the unemployment rate barely moved Real wage growth showed improvement, but at half the rate of the previous year Employment growth was halved in East Asia and Latin America LATEST ISSUES March 2014 Job Trends, March 2014 Issue: Stagnant GDP Growth Rates; Sluggish Employment Growth in Developing Countries PAST ISSUES 2013 November 2013 Job Trends November 2013: Employment Growth in Developing Countries Falls Further as Recovery Stalls February 2013 Labor Markets in Developing Countries Resilient Amid Declining Growth 2012 October 2012 Labor Markets in Developing Countries Resilient in the Face of Slowing Growth July 2012 Despite Sluggish Growth, Labor Markets in Developing Countries Continue Their Gradual Recovery April 2012 Despite Sluggish Growth, Labor Markets in Developing Countries Continue Their Gradual Recovery February 2012 Slow and Steady Recovery Continues, With Encouraging Signs in Developing Countries in Eastern Europe 2011 October 2011 Uneven Recovery from the Global Crisis in Developing Country Labor Markets --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.