Partners GSCP Global Smart City Partnership Program Home Overview GSCP ENGAGEMENTS Partners Team News & Events Project Maps With Whom Do We Collaborate? GSCP links four players in the Global Smart City network: World Bank project teams World Bank client cities Global technical experts Leading smart cities World Bank project teams assist client cities with a range of projects, from lending operations to advisory services. GPSC matches the technical experts with project teams; the experts then work as consultants with the teams, bringing technical know-how for smart-city design and implementation. The program also incorporates leading smart cities’ experiences through knowledge-sharing and peer-to-peer learning. Korea as a Pioneer and Promoter of Smart Cities Smart and Sustainable Cities - The Netherlands Global Programs and Partnerships on Smart Cities How Do We Collaborate? image Partners Partnerships with leading smart cities and global technical experts are at the core of GSCP. The program fosters connection and collaboration among World Bank Group teams and clients, smart city experts, and partners. MOLIT Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport promotes Korea's smart city development efforts and seek global cooperation in this realm through K-City Network - a smart city national policy information portal. Global Cooperation Program is a government-to-government cooperation program which is launched by MOLIT in 2020 to share Korea’s smart city development expertise and experience. The program provides funding and technical support for basic study development for a smart city project like a master plan or feasibility study and a short-term training course in Korea for the host government officials. It also offers three sub-programs for recipient countries to choose from based on their needs. The Korea Research Institute for Human Settlements (KRIHS) stands as the pioneer think tank in Korea, committed to conducting comprehensive analyses of policies governing the efficient utilization, development, and conservation of land resources. Since its establishment in 1978, the KRIHS has been dedicated to advancing the balanced development of the national territory, enhancing our nation's competitiveness, promoting sustainable development, and elevating the quality of life for our citizens. The Netherlands Enterprise Agency (Rijksdienst voor Ondernemend Nederland, RVO) is an executive body of the Dutch Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy (Ministerie van Economische Zaken en Klimaat, EZK). It helps entrepreneurs, NGOs, knowledge institutes, policymakers and organizations to invest, develop and expand their businesses and projects both in the Netherlands and abroad. It provides a platform to improve collaborations and strengthen positions through funding and networks. Amsterdam Smart City is an open innovation platform that brings together innovation professionals from governments, companies, knowledge institutions and civil society organizations to shape the city and region of the future. They offer a meeting place and (online) workspace for metropolitan challenges and solutions. Via this online community, innovation and sustainability professionals share their smart city updates, opportunities, challenges, projects and events. Tomorrow.City is a digital content platform that combines knowledge, business and awareness to accelerate sustainable and inclusive cities for all. It’s a global hub to help advance the smart city industry by connecting cities with companies, driving talent development and building momentum for sustainable and inclusive urban projects all around the world. Contact Us GSCP@worldbank.org Other resources The Smart City Hub Switzerland Association serves to promote cooperation and the exchange of knowledge. The declared aim of the Association is to promote cooperation and the exchange of knowledge between Swiss cities and their businesses, service providers close to the federal government, as well as federal agencies and research in the Smart City area. It is intended to enable its members to use synergies and to share the knowledge and skills required for this purpose. The central task is to support the implementation of projects, in particular to save time and costs. Further tasks are the promotion of dialogue and cooperation, the development of innovative solutions that are close to the citizen and customer, and the use of synergies and scalability. Innosuisse is the Swiss Innovation Agency. Its role is to promote science-based innovation including smart city solutions in the interest of the economy and society in Switzerland. Innosuisse especially promotes the partnership between academia and the market with innovation projects, networking, training and coaching, laying the groundwork for successful Swiss start-ups as well as innovative products and services. It provides considerable benefits for a prosperous and sustainable economy. Innosuisse is a federal entity under public law with a separate legal personality. It provides support in accordance with the subsidiarity principle: it only supports projects if the innovation could not be implemented and market potential would not be tapped into without funding. The World Smart Sustainable Cities Organization (WeGO) is an international association of city and other local governments, smart tech solution providers, and national and regional institutions committed to the transformation of cities into smart sustainable cities. WeGO’s Secretariat is based in Seoul and supported by regional offices in Africa (Abuja, Nigeria), East Asia (Chengdu, China), Eurasia (Ulyanovsk Region, Russia), the Mediterranean (Beyoglu, Turkey), and Latin America (Mexico City, Mexico). WeGO has more than 200 members around the world and serves as their international platform to improve the quality of life, innovate in the delivery of public services, and strengthen regional competitiveness. The Smart Cities Marketplace was created by merging the two former European Commission projects “Marketplace of the European Innovation Partnership on Smart Cities and Communities” (EIP-SCC) and the “Smart Cities Information System” (SCIS) into one single platform. It is a major market-changing undertaking that aims to bring cities, industries, SMEs, investors, researchers and other smart city actors together. The Smart Cities Marketplace has thousands of followers from all over Europe and beyond, many of which have signed up as a member. Their common aims are to improve citizens’ quality of life, increase the competitiveness of European cities and industry as well as to reach European energy and climate targets. The UNDP Global Centre for Technology, Innovation and Sustainable Development (GC-TISD) is a hub for knowledge and policy relating to sustainable development, with the emphasis on connecting top policymakers, practitioners, think tanks, business and other relevant stakeholders for learning and sharing of best practices on the themes of technology, innovation, and partnerships for sustainable development. UNDP GC-TISD is also a platform to study and showcase successful examples of innovation and partnerships to achieve sustainable development, leveraging Singapore as a living lab for global sustainability solutions, UNDP’s global development advisory and implementation services network, and UNDP’s partnership-building efforts within the UN system and with the international financial institutions. Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->