Health : Development news, research, data | World Bank Understanding Poverty Topics --> Health The World Bank Group helps countries achieve universal health coverage by strengthening primary care systems, ensuring affordable, quality health services for all. Investing in health boosts human capital, drives economic growth, and creates jobs. Health Home Overview Featured Event | Dec 6, 2025 UHC High-Level Forum The Government of Japan will convene the Forum with WBG and WHO to foster cross-sector collaboration to ensure health systems are more inclusive, resilient, and equitable. UHC High-Level Forum Feature Story Global Knowledge and Local Wisdom: Health Flagship Course in the Pacific A new World Bank Group Academy program supports countries with policy dialogue and capacity building for health system reforms towards universal health coverage. Global Knowledge and Local Wisdom: Health Flagship Course in the Pacific IMMERSIVE STORY Investing in Health is Key to Job Creation and Economic Growth The health sector offers steady employment and upskilling opportunities, especially for women. Investing in Health is Key to Job Creation and Economic Growth Health At-A-Glance The World Bank Group is committed to helping governments achieve universal health coverage (UHC) by 2030, which has the potential to transform the health and well-being of individuals and societies. The vision of UHC is that all people can obtain the quality health services they need without suffering financial hardship. UHC also allows countries to make the most of their strongest asset: human capital. World Bank Group Scorecard: Healthier Lives Overview Data Out-of-pocket Expenditures (% Of Total Expenditure) Data Project --> Emergency Health and Nutrition Project The development objective of Emergency Health and Nutrition Project for Yemen is to contribute to the provision of basic health and essential nutrition services for the benefit of the population VIEW ALL Focus Areas Health Financing Effective and strategic health financing helps people access the care they need without facing financial hardship, improves ... Health Financing Health Emergencies Pathogens, natural disasters, climate-related events, or conflict can pose major health, social, and economic risks. Health Emergencies Health, Economic Development and Jobs Investments in health have far-reaching effects, boosting broader economic growth and job creation. Health, Economic Development and Jobs Nutrition Malnutrition is one of the world’s most serious but least-addressed development challenges. Nutrition Universal Health Coverage Universal health coverage (UHC) is about people having access to the health care they need without suffering financial hardship.... Universal Health Coverage Health and Climate Change The Global Climate Crisis Poses Serious Risks to Human Health and Wellbeing. Health and Climate Change RESEARCH View All Link Budget Execution in Health: From Bottlenecks to Solutions Budget Execution in Health: From Bottlenecks to Solutions Investment Framework for Nutrition 2024 Investment Framework for Nutrition 2024 Unlocking the Power of Healthy Longevity: Demographic Change, Non-communicable Diseases and Human Capital Unlocking the Power of Healthy Longevity: Demographic Change, Non-communicable Diseases and Human Capital Walking the Talk: Reimagining Primary Health Care After COVID-19 Walking the Talk: Reimagining Primary Health Care After COVID-19 Blogs View All Blogs Expert --> David Wilson Global Director, Health, Nutrition & Population David Wilson View All Experts Stay Connected News & Events What's New View All What's New Latest Events View All Events In Depth Health Works: Improving lives with quality, affordable health services Access to health care can unlock human capital and economic dividends for countries. Together we can reach 1.5B people with health services. Health Works: Improving lives with quality, affordable health services Investing in Health Blog Our global team of health & development experts share their insights Subscribe now Investing in Health Blog Global Financing Facility Smart, scaled and sustainable financing designed to achieve and measure results Global Financing Facility Joint Learning Network The Joint Learning Network for Universal Health Coverage is a global community of policymakers and practitioners who co-produce practical solutions to implementing reforms toward UHC. Joint Learning Network Work With Us In Health Subscribe to Our Newsletters Submit Additional Resources Priority Programs Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) Media inquiries Alexandra Humme ahumme@worldbank.org Subscribe to the health newsletter Arrow This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×