How Corruption Enables Resource Theft and Illicit Flows Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events How Corruption Enables Resource Theft and Illicit Flows Overview Agenda Background The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) has characterized corruption as a major vulnerability that enables illegal activity. This is clearly exemplified in the theft of natural resources. Environmental crime is among the most profitable illegal activities, generating around USD 110 to 281 billion every year . According to Interpol, proceeds are growing over 5% a year – three times faster than the world’s GDP. The numbers are staggering when considering the potential for revenue and revenue loss. The World Bank estimates that countries could increase fiscal revenues by up to 1.7% of GDP in potential tax and royalty income . Corruption is a major enabler of natural resource theft. It often happens through the irregular allocation of licenses and permits, by officials accepting bribe payments to turn a blind eye on abuses and bypassing environmental safeguards, and by weakening regulatory frameworks in favour of the well connected. Officials accepting bribes allow illegal logging, mining, and fishing in protected areas, often allowing resources to leave countries without generating valuable revenue. The United Nations Convention Against Corruption (UNCAC) is a versatile instrument, providing a legal framework to combat corruption that enables the theft of natural resources. It is not an environmental treaty itself, but its provisions serve as powerful tools to address the corruption that drives illegal mining, deforestation or illegal fisheries, among other examples. International Anticorruption Day is an annual observance held on December 9th to raise awareness of corruption and promote efforts to combat it. It was established by the UN General Assembly in 2003 to raise awareness of corruption and of the UNCAC. The day serves as a reminder of the need to fight corruption and the crucial role of the Convention in fostering integrity and accountability globally. On this Anticorruption Day 2025, we would like to open a conversation on how corruption enables the theft of natural resources leading to loss of revenue and illicit financial flows. We will explore three important areas: fisheries, forestry, and gold mining, and we will focus on three case studies to analyze the interaction between corruption, money laundering, and domestic resource mobilization. Objective of the Series This series of webinars is meant to analyse the close relationship between corruption, resource depletion and money laundering, through the presentation of emblematic case studies in three key sectors for domestic resource mobilization: forestry, fisheries and mining. Illicit financial flows are complex and require a whole of government approach, through a combined anticorruption, tax transparency and antimony laundering strategy. Corruption in the Fisheries Sector: The Fishrot Case December 09, 2025 2pm Welcome remarks: Arturo Herrera , Global Director, Governance 2:15pm Special remarks: Brigitte Straubel-Shaw , Chief of the Corruption and Economic Crime Branch, UNODC (tbc) 2:30pm Panel Discussion: Fisheries Moderator: Roby Senderowitch , Governance Global Practice Manager Graham Hopwood , Executive Director, Institute for Public Policy Research (tbc) Louise Russel-Prywata , Open Ownership (tbc) Mitali Tyagi , Asia Pacific Group (tbc) Marcos Roca – Tax Inspectors without Boarders 3:30 pm Closing remarks: Niraj Verna , Acting Global Director, FCI (tbc) Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×