Gender Dimensions of Forced Displacement (GDFD) Research Program Understanding Poverty Topics Gender BRIEF Gender Dimensions of Forced Displacement (GDFD) Research Program Email Print Tweet Share Share LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> How does forced displacement affect women and men differently? And how should policy and program design and implementation reflect these differences? The World Bank, with support from the UK Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office, has generated important new insights on these questions through a major program of research. Poverty, Gender, and Displacement : A Policy Brief The first Sustainable Development Goal to end poverty in all its forms by 2030 pledges to leave no one behind. Forced Displacement and Violence Against Women : A Policy Brief Over 80 million people, one percent of the globe’s population, have been forcibly displaced, the highest level on record (UNHCR 2020a). « » About Papers Events Tab As the number of people who are forcibly displaced reaches all-time highs, with the vast majority living in developing countries, the displacement challenge has moved to the top of the global development agenda. This was recognized by the International Development Association (IDA)-- the World Bank’s fund for the poorest. Currently, the IDA19 Window for Host Communities and Refugees and host communities, dedicates $2.2 billion to help low-income countries hosting large numbers of refugees. During displacement, families are often separated, assets and livelihoods are lost or disrupted, and language barriers, legal constraints and discrimination may arise. The nature of these impacts, and barriers and opportunities, may well differ between women and men. But development policies and programs are often designed without taking these gendered factors and differences into account, and also often fail to monitor how outcomes and impacts vary between men and women, girls and boys. A series of papers has been published about the Gender Dimensions of Forced Displacement by researchers from a range of disciplines from inside and outside the World Bank, with strategic guidance from a Senior Advisory Panel. The research has examined a range of interrelated drivers and manifestations of gender inequality – including income and multi-dimensional poverty, livelihoods, gender norms and the risks of experiencing intimate partner violence and child marriage. The Gender Dimensions of Forced Displacement: A Synthesis of New Research presents an overview of the main findings. The research shows that gender-related constraints and barriers are often amplified in situations of forced displacement and consider how policies and programs can help to overcome obstacles and enable new opportunities to be realized. Additionally, our findings were published in the Quarterly Digest of the Joint Data Center on Forced Displacement, highlighting our empirical analysis as a unique contribution to this area of study. A major contribution of the research is to demonstrate novel and important insights that can be generated using existing datasets that are available for many countries – like the Demographic and Health Surveys – and new efforts, like the High Frequency Surveys. This is not to minimize the importance of data constraints, which are large, but it is important to carefully examine what can be done with existing information, as well as call for improvements in the coverage of forcibly displaced people in surveys, and in the coverage of topics where data is needed to understand gender inequality. The Gender Group at the World Bank has partnered with researchers at: Harvard Humanitarian Initiative; International Security and Development Center; Georgetown Institute of Women, Peace and Security; the Economic Research Forum; St. Catherine University; USAID; Action Kivu; Wageningen University; University of Minnesota; UNHCR; and the Oxford Poverty and Human Development Initiative. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS This work is part of the program Building the Evidence on Protracted Forced Displacement: A Multi-Stakeholder Partnership' . The program is funded by UK aid from the United Kingdom's Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO), and managed by the World Bank Group (WBG). It was established in partnership with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). The scope of the program is to expand the global knowledge on forced displacement by funding quality research and disseminating results for the use of practitioners and policy makers. This work does not necessarily reflect the views of FCDO, the WBG or UNHCR. Senior Advisory Panel Members: Kristin Kim Bart ; Global Development and Humanitarian Consultant Elizabeth Dartnall ; Executive Director, Sexual Violence Research Initiative (SVRI) Rebecca Eapen ; Senior Community Based Protection Officer, UNHCR Elizabeth Ferris ; Research Professor, School of Foreign Service, Institute for the Study of International Migration, Georgetown University Patricia Justino ; Senior Research Fellow, UNU-WIDER Anne C. Richard ; James R. Schlesinger Distinguished Professor, Miller Center, University of Virginia (January 2020-June 2021) Daphne Jayasinghe ; Director of Policy, Europe, International Rescue Committee Philip Verwimp ; Professor of Development Economics, ECARES, Solvay Brussels School of Economics and Management, Université libre de Bruxelles Cindy Huang ; Vice President of Strategic Outreach, Refugees International* *Until February 2021 Background Documents Coping with Compounding Challenges in Conflict Crises: Evidence from North-east Nigeria NEW Emerging Evidence on Gender from the Building the Evidence on Forced Displacement Research Program NEW Proposed Approach for The Gender Dimensions of Forced Displacement Research Program (June 2021) Gender Dimensions of Forced Displacement Research Program Overview (June 2021) Data Options for Assessing Gender Dimensions of Forced Displacement: A Background Note (June 2021) The country studies cover Colombia, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, Jordan, Mali, Nigeria, Somalia, and Sudan. There are also several multi-country studies, covering a total of 17 countries examining intimate partner violence, child marriage, and multidimensional poverty, which generate interesting comparative insights. There are also three operational guidance notes, for operations and country diagnostics targeting internally displaced people and refugees. The topics covered include mainstreaming gender-based violence prevention and response in forcibly displaced operations, sustainable livelihoods and economic empowerment of refugee and internally displaced women, and data and analytical methods. Policy and Analysis Key Development Challenges Around Internal Displacement Key Challenges for Refugee Policies and Programs The Gender Dimensions of Forced Displacement: A Synthesis of New Research Poverty and Inequality Differences in Household Composition: Hidden Dimensions of Poverty and Displacement in Somalia Blog: Want to keep internally displaced people in Somalia out of poverty? Increase women’s economic opportunities A Multi-Country Analysis of Multidimensional Poverty in Contexts of Forced Displacement Multidimensional Poverty, Gender, and Forced Displacement: A Multi-Country, Intrahousehold Analysis in Sub-Saharan Africa Blog: How new tools can more accurately measure the intersection of forced displacement, gender, and poverty How Does Poverty Differ Among Refugees? Taking a Gender Lens to the Data on Syrian Refugees in Jordan The Impact of Protracted Displacement on Syrian Refugees in Jordan: The Evolution of Household Composition and Poverty Rates Gender-based Violence Conflict, Displacement and Overlapping Vulnerabilities: Understanding Risk Factors for Gender-based Violence among Displaced Women in Eastern Democratic Republic of Congo Intimate Partner Violence and Household Decision-making Autonomy: Effects of the Malian Conflict on Women The Risk That Travels with You: Links between Forced Displacement, Conflict and Intimate Partner Violence in Colombia and Liberia Effect of Armed Conflict on Intimate Partner Violence: Evidence from the Boko Haram Insurgency in Nigeria Blog: Does armed conflict increase a woman’s risk of suffering intimate partner violence? Conflict and Girl Child Marriage: Global Evidence Gender Norms Do Gender Norms Change with Conflict-Induced Displacement? The Case of Colombia How Do Gender Norms Shape Education and Domestic Work Outcomes? The Case of Syrian Refugee Adolescents in Jordan Blog: How gender norms influence school enrollment and domestic work for Syrian refugee adolescents in Jordan Livelihoods and Development Forced Displacement, Gender, and Livelihoods: Refugees in Ethiopia The double burden of female displacement: Survey data evidence on gendered livelihoods and welfare from protracted forcibly displaced and host community women in El Fasher in Darfur, Sudan Coping with Compounding Challenges in Conflict Crises: Evidence from North-east Nigeria [forthcoming] Operational Guidance Notes Job Opportunities for Women in Displacement Settings: Gender Dimensions of Forced Displacement Operational Note Overcoming Data Constraints to Better Understand the Gender Dimensions of Forced Displacement: Gender Dimensions of Forced Displacement Operational Note Operations Guidance for Intimate-Partner Violence Projects: Gender Dimensions of Forced Displacement Operational Note March 29, 2022: Gender Norms and Forced Displacement: Unpacking New Evidence from Colombia and Jordan Speakers: Ragui Assad (Economic Research Forum), Eliana Rubiano-Matulevich (World Bank), Ana María Iabñez (Inter American Development Bank), María Beatriz Orlando (World Bank). March 21, 2022: The Gender Dimensions of Forced Displacement: New Evidence to Guide Policy Official Side Event at the CSW66 Diana Jimena Arango (World Bank), Lucia Hanmer (World Bank), Jocelyn Kelly (Harvard Humanitarian Initiative), Eliana Carolina Rubiano Matulevich (World Bank), Andrea Ayala (GIRWL Network), Uche Eseosa Ekhator-Mobayode (World Bank), Gianina Marquez Olivera (Quina Ola), Bernadette Castel (UNHCR). March 8, 2022: Building the Evidence Base on Gender Dimensions of Forced Displacement Presentation at the World Bank Fragility Forum Speakers: Yeshwas Admasu (FAO), Sabina Alkire (Oxford Poverty and Human Development Initiative), Jocelyn Kelly (Harvard Humanitarian Initiative), Paula Gaviria Betancur (UN High Level Panel on Internally Displaced Persons), moderated by Ibrahim Elbadawi (Economic Research Forum). February 17, 2022: Gender and Multidimensional Poverty in Forced Displacement: Measuring What Matters Speakers: Nabila Assaf (World Bank), Sabina Alkire (Oxford Poverty and Human Development Initiative), Carolina Sánchez-Páramo (World Bank), Paolo Verme (World Bank). January 27, 2022: Gender Dimensions of Forced Displacement High-Level Launch Speakers: Mari Pangestu (World Bank), David Miliband (International Rescue Committee), Paula Gaviria Betancur (UN High Level Panel on Internally Displaced Persons), Cecilia Jimenez Damary (Special Rapporteur on the Human Rights of Internally Displaced Persons), Saroj Kumar Jha (World Bank), Gillian Triggs (UNHCR), Mamta Murthi (World Bank); moderated by Hana Brixi (World Bank). December 8, 2021: Intimate Partner Violence and Forced Displacement: From Research to Action Speakers: Elizabeth Dartnall (Sexual Violence Research Initiative), Diana Jimena Arango (World Bank), Jocelyn Kelly (Harvard Humanitarian Initiative), Paul Bukuluki (Makerere University). RELATED Blogs - How often is gender addressed in research on forced displacement? - How new tools can more accurately measure the intersection of forced displacement, gender, and poverty - Want to keep internally displaced people in Somalia out of poverty? Increase women’s economic opportunities - How gender norms influence school enrollment and domestic work for Syrian refugee adolescents in Jordan - Does armed conflict increase a woman’s risk of suffering intimate partner violence? Relevant Papers - The Gender Dimensions of Forced Displacement: A Synthesis of New Research Related Links - Gender Strategy Update (2024-30): Accelerating Equality and Empowerment for All - International Women’s Day 2023: Accelerating Equality and Empowerment RESOURCES Contact - Lucia Hanmer - Diana J. Arango Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->