The State of Girls' Education --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY The State of Girls' Education September 1, 2011 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> The state of girls' education today has improved significantly over the past decade. However, girls continue to lag behind their male counterparts in many areas of the world, in terms of access to education, completion of schooling, and acquisition of basic skills such as literacy. Out-of-School Children In 1999, around 106 million children were out of primary school. Almost 61 million (58%) were girls compared to 45 million (42%) boys. In 2009, around 35 million girls were still out of school compared to 31 million boys. Although the gap in gender parity has decreased substantially, there are still many more girls out of primary school than boys. Girls Out of School in Africa and South Asia Almost ½ of the world’s out of school girls are in SSA. Around ¼ are in South Asia. In South Asia, the region’s total number of out-of-school girls dropped from 23 million girls to 9.5 million since 1999. In Sub-Saharan Africa, the number of out-of-school girls has decreased more slowly, from 25 million in 1999 to 17 million in 2008. Primary Completion Rates Globally, the gender gap has been gradually shrinking since 1999. In Latin America and East Asia, girls have reached parity with boys, however more boys complete primary school than girls in all other regions. Youth Literacy Rates Globally, there is still a large gender gap in youth literacy rates, although the gap has been shrinking over time. Still, the data seem to show that fewer girls are emerging from education systems with basic literacy skills than boys. RELATED WORLD BANK EdStats newsletter Afghanistan East Asia Pacific Education Rwanda Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.