How much do you know about the indigenous populations of Latin America? --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News Infographic How much do you know about the indigenous populations of Latin America? November 22, 2016 This page in: English Español Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> They number nearly 42 million, and speak over 500 languages. Despite having benefited from the expansion of basic services a decade ago, they remain largely disenfranchised. A World Bank study, Indigenous Latin America in the Twenty-first Century , systematized the available data on the region’s indigenous population to learn more about their situation after the “golden decade” of the early 2000s. While the region's native peoples now enjoy greater visibility and recognition in political decisions, several gaps remain: an indigenous family is nearly three times more likely to live in extreme poverty than a non-indigenous family. The graphs below provide an overview of indigenous peoples’ main challenges, including the need to achieve development which takes their voices, identities and cultures into consideration: Argentina Latin America and Caribbean Bolivia Brazil Chile Colombia Costa Rica Dominican Republic Ecuador El Salvador Guatemala Haiti Honduras Mexico Nicaragua Panama Peru The Caribbean: Development news, research, data | World Bank Uruguay Venezuela View More + RELATED WORLD BANK Report: Indigenous Latin America in the twenty-first century: the first decade Brief Page: Indigenous Latin America in the Twenty-First Century --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.