Event | Alternative Dispute Resolution Solutions to Address 21st Century Development Challenges in Asia and the Pacific Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Alternative Dispute Resolution Solutions to Address 21st Century Development Challenges in Asia and the Pacific Share Overview Effective and efficient dispute resolution is crucial for emerging markets and developing economies to achieve sustainable economic development. International alternative dispute resolution (IADR) has become a key enabler in supporting foreign direct investment, cross-border trade, private sector and private-public partnership development, and the digital economy. Despite its potential, IADR faces significant challenges to its further development and widespread adoption including inadequate knowledge about IADR among policymakers, insufficient legal frameworks, concerns about impartiality, low user uptake and limited access to IADR for micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises. This session will highlight the increasing use of IADR through statistics and survey data, sharing experiences from EMDEs in Asia and the Pacific on advancing IADR, as well as perspectives from actors within the IADR ecosystem. Additionally, the session will explore the potential of international mediation and the Singapore Convention in enhancing cost and time efficiency and access to justice. Furthermore, it will introduce the development of an AI-powered online dispute resolution platform to address a key barrier impeding growth in emerging economies. IADR can adapt to the evolving development context, but there is an urgent need to innovate and expand its possibilities to meet the challenges of resolving contemporary disputes. Speakers: Tigran Dadunts , Deputy Minister of Justice, Armenia Byungsik Jung , Deputy Dean, Asian Development Bank Institute Ambeng Kandakasi , Deputy Chief Justice, National and Supreme Courts, Papua New Guinea Claudia Salomon , President, ICC International Court of Arbitration Aleksey Sim , Head of the Investment Climate and Ratings Department, Ministry of Investments, Industry and Trade, Uzbekistan Moderator: Thomas Clark , General Counsel, Asian Development Bank Return to the main LJD Week event website here . Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×