Energy Infrastructure Data - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Back to climate , updates Energy Infrastructure Data January 05, 2024 Here you will find scientific and technical information resources related to the potential impacts of climate change on the U.S. energy sector and other types of critical infrastructure. In an effort to enhance future energy security and the underlying knowledge foundations, the Energy and Infrastructure Resilience theme contains federal data, tools, and publications that inform various aspects of how energy and infrastructure systems could be impacted by climate change as well as how they might adapt to become more climate resilient. Citizens, businesses, non-governmental agencies, governments, and research institutions may find improved accessibility to these resources useful in better understanding and preparing for climate-related impacts on energy and infrastructure. You may access the framing questions used to select the data and content available for this theme. All Energy Infrastructure data are organized around six different topic areas: Energy Resources Energy Supply Energy Conversion Energy Transmission/distribution Energy Demand Energy Resources, Energy Supply, Renewable Energy Renewable Energy Solar Energy For more information about these issues, explore the Climate Resilience Toolkit topic area for Energy . About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov