Office of the Chief Economist, South Asia Region, World Bank SARCE Where We Work South Asia Office of the Chief Economist, South Asia Region Office of the Chief Economist, South Asia Region Overview Publications Research News & Blogs Initiatives Events Recent Research The Office of the Chief Economist brings together knowledge and expertise across major sectors of development. We seek to produce and feature papers that provides sustainable and innovative solutions for the development challenges, with a focus on South Asian countries and beyond. 2025 Social Learning among Urban Manufacturing Firms: Energy-Efficient Motors in Bangladesh Ritam Chaurey, Gaurav Nayyar, Siddharth Sharma, and Eric Verhoogen Self-Employment Promotion as Active Labor Market Policy: Design and Trade-offs in Rigid Labor Markets Joaquin Garcia-Cabo, Rocio Madera, and Zoe Xie Temptation, Self-Control, and the Design of Optimal Unemployment Insurance Zoe Xie and Pei-Cheng Yu From Patriarchy to Policy: Norms, Votes, and Gender Equal Laws Maurizio Bussolo, Jonah Matthew Rexer & Lynn Hu Comparative Local and Multinational Advantages in the Global Mining Industry Jonah M. Rexer, Utsoree Das & Erik Katovich Election-induced fiscal policy cycles in democratic and non-democratic emerging market and developing economies Franziska Ohnsorge, Jakob de Haan & Shu Yu Bridging the Gap: Revenue Mobilization in South Asia Hagen Kruse, Franziska Ohnsorge, Gabriel Tourek & Zoe Leiyu Xie 2024 The Short and the Long of It: Stock-Flow Matching in the US Housing Market Zoe Xie, Eric Smith & Lei Fang Geoeconomic Fragmentation and “Connector” Countries Franziska Ohnsorge & Shekhar Aiyar Election-Induced Fiscal Policy Cycles in Emerging Market and Developing Economies Franziska Ohnsorge, Jakob de Haan & Shu Yu What Explains Global Inflation Franziska Ohnsorge, Jongrim Ha, M. Ayhan Kose & Hakan Yilmazkuday From financial development to informality: a causal link Franziska Ohnsorge, Salvatore Capasso & Shu Yu Boosted income, busted environment: a tradeoff in the wider economic impacts of transport corridor investments? Siddharth Sharma, Martin Melecky & Hari Subhash Structural Change in Sub-Saharan Africa: An Open Economy Perspective Hagen Kruse, Gaaitzen de Vries, Emmanuel Buadi Mensah, Yabo Vidogbena & Kei-Mu Yi The Occupation Content of Trade Hagen Kruse, Marcel P Timmer, Gaaitzen J de Vries & Xianjia Ye Corruption as a Local Advantage: Evidence from the Indigenization of Nigerian Oil Jonah Rexer Optimal Unemployment Insurance and Costly Self-Control Zoe Xie & Pei Cheng Yu Education, Social Norms, and the Marriage Penalty: Evidence from South Asia Maurizio Bussolo, Jonah Rexer & Margaret Triyana Household and Firm Exposure to Heat and Floods in South Asia Jonah Rexer, Patrick Behrer, Siddharth Sharma & Margaret Triyana Jobless Development Franziska Ohnsorge, Richard Rogerson & Zoe Leiyu Xie Social Norms and Gender Disparities with a Focus on Female Labor Force Participation in South Asia Maurizio Bussolo, Jessy Amarachi Ezebuihe, Ana Maria Muñoz Boudet, Stavros Poupakis, Tasmia Rahman & Nayantara Sarma Evaluating the Impacts of Access to a Digital Jobs Platform and Skills Training on Female Domestic Workers Maurizio Bussolo, S Anukriti, Jean Lee, Siddharth Sharma & Anaise Williams Climate Change Adaptation: What Does the Evidence Say? Jonah Rexer & Siddharth Sharma Optimal Unemployment Insurance and Costly Self-Control Zoe Xie & Pei Cheng Yu Climate Shocks and the Poor: A Review of the Literature Margaret Triyana, Weicheng Jiang, Yurui Hu & Md Shah Naoaj 2023 Market Finance for Development: Taking stock Xiao’ou Zhu, Dilip Ratha, Eung Ju Kim, Akhtar Mahmood, Sonia Plaza & William Shaw A Quantitative Analysis of Multidimensional Changes in Unemployment Insurance Policies Zoe Xie, Lei Fang & Jun Nie One-stop source: A global database of inflation Franziska Ohnsorge, Jongrim Ha & M. Ayhan Kose A Mountain of Debt: Navigating the Legacy of the Pandemic Franziska Ohnsorge, M. Ayhan Kose & Naotaka Sugawara A Manufacturing (Re)Naissance? Industrialization in the Developing World Hagen Kruse, Emmanuel Mensah, Kunal Sen & Gaaitzen de Vries Falling Long-Term Growth Prospects Franziska Ohnsorge & M. Ayhan Kose Long-term evolution of inequality of opportunity: Educated parents still matter Maurizio Bussolo, Daniele Checchi & Vito Peragine The evolution of job tenure in transition economies Maurizio Bussolo, Michael M. Lokshin, Nicolás Oviedo & Iván Torre Political connections and firms: network dimensions Maurizio Bussolo, Simon Commander & Stavros Poupakis Explaining the Evolution of Job Tenure in Europe, 1995–2020 Maurizio Bussolo, Damien Capelle, Michael M. Lokshin, Iván Torre & Hernan Winkler Slowing Growth: More Than a Rough Patch Franziska Ohnsorge & M. Ayhan Kose Potential Growth: A Global Database Franziska Ohnsorge, Sinem Kilic Celik, M. Ayhan Kose & Franz Ruch Potential Growth Prospects: Risks, Rewards, and Policies Franziska Ohnsorge, Sinem Kilic Celik & M. Ayhan Kose Understanding the Global Drivers of Inflation: How Important are Oil Prices? Franziska Ohnsorge, Jongrim Ha, M. Ayhan Kose & Hakan Yilmazkuday Election-induced fiscal policy cycles in emerging market and developing economies Franziska Ohnsorge, Jakob De Haan & Shu Yu Forecasting Industrial Commodity Prices : Literature Review and a Model Suite Franziska Ohnsorge, Francisco Arroyo-Marioli, Jeetendra Khadan & Takefumi Yamazaki The Distributional Impact of Inflation in South Asia: An Empirical Approach Vanessa Olakemi Dovonou & Zoe Leiyu Xie Are Carbon Taxes Good for South Asia? Valerie Mercer-Blackman, Lazar Milivojevic & Victor Mylonas Natural Disasters and Fiscal Drought Lazar Milivojevic The links between COVID-19 vaccine acceptance and non-pharmaceutical interventions Maurizio Bussolo, Nayantara Sarma & Iván Torre How Selling Online Is Affecting Informal Firms in South Asia Maurizio Bussolo, Akshay Dixit, Anne Golla, Ananya Kotia, Jean N. Lee, Prema Narasimhan & Siddharth Sharma 2022 The World Bank’s Harmonized Bilateral FDI Databases: Methodology, Trends, and Possible Use Cases Xiao’ou Zhu, Victor Steenbergen, Yan Liu & Mauricio Pinzon Latorre Social Norms and Gender Equality Maurizio Bussolo, Jessy Amarachi Ezebuihe, Ana Maria Munoz Boudet, Stavros Poupakis, Tasmia Rahman & Nayantara Sarma A Dynamic Model of Fiscal Decentralization and Public Debt Accumulation Zoe Xie, Si Guo & Yun Pei Dynamics and synchronization of global equilibrium interest rates Robert C. M. Beyer & Lazar Milivojevic Trade Agreements in South Asia: Towards a Successful Story in the Developing World Sebastian Franco Bedoya 2021 Politically connected firms and privileged access to credit: Evidence from Central and Eastern Europe Maurizio Bussolo, Francesca de Nicola, Ugo Panizza & Richard Varghese I Perceive Therefore I Demand: The Formation of Inequality Perceptions and Demand for Redistribution Maurizio Bussolo, Ada Ferrer-i-Carbonell, Anna Giolbas & Iván Torre Understanding FDI Spillovers in the Presence of GVCs Valerie Mercer-Blackman, Wei Xiang & Fahad Khan The Impact of United States Tax Policies on Sectoral Foreign Direct Investment to Asia Valerie Mercer-Blackman & Sheila Camingue The Causal Effects of Long-Term PM2.5 Exposure on COVID-19 in India Takahiro Yamada, Hiroyuki Yamada & Muthukumara Mani Poverty and Migration in the Digital Age: Experimental Evidence on Mobile Banking in Bangladesh Jean N. Lee, Jonathan Morduch, Saravana Ravindran, Abu Shonchoy & Hassan Zaman It takes two (to make things right): Women's Empowerment and Couple Concordance in South Asia Maurizio Bussolo, Nayantara Sarma & Anaise Williams Narrowing the gender gap in mobile banking Jean N.Lee, Jonathan Morduch, Saravana Ravindran & Abu S.Shonchoy Workers at Risk: Panel Data Evidence on the COVID-19 Labor Market Crisis in India Maurizio Bussolo, Ananya Kotia & Siddharth Sharma 2020 Feeling Poor, Feeling Rich, Or Feeling Middle-Class: An Empirical Investigation Maurizio Bussolo, Mathilde Lebrand & Ivan Torre Global Inequality in a more educated world Maurizio Bussolo, Amer Ahmed, Marcio Cruz, Delfin S. Go & Israel Osorio-Rodarte The Drivers of Firms' Compliance to Environmental Regulations: The Case of India Sebastian Franco-Bedoya & Muthukumara Mani Regional Integration in South Asia: Implications for Green Growth, Female Labor Force Participation, and the Gender Wage Gap Muthukumara Mani, Badri Narayanan Gopalakrishnan & Deepika Wadhwa Valuing Unpaid Care Work in Bhutan Valerie Mercer-Blackman, Jooyeoun Suh, Changa Dorji & Aimee Hampel-Milagrosa Migration, externalities, and the diffusion of COVID-19 in South Asia Jean N.Lee, Mahreen Mahmud, Jonathan Morduch, Saravana Ravindran & Abu S.Shonchoy Fiscal policy and economic activity in South Asia Robert C. M. Beyer & Lazar Milivojevic Lights Out ? COVID-19 Containment Policies and Economic Activity Robert C. M. Beyer, Tarun Jain & Sonalika Sinha Examining the Economic Impact of COVID-19 in India through Daily Electricity Consumption and Nighttime Light Intensity Robert C. M. Beyer, Sebastian Franco-Bedoya & Virgilio Galdo 2019 Vertical and Horizontal Redistribution: Evidence from Europe Maurizio Bussolo, Carla Krolage, Mattia Makovec, Andreas Peichl, Marc Stöckli, Iván Torre & Christian Wittneben Employment in South Asia: A New Dataset Robert C. M. Beyer, Milagros Chocce & Martin Rama Fiscal Policy and Economic Activity in South Asia Robert C. M. Beyer & Lazar Milivojevic Inflation Dynamics and Global Value Chains Sebastian Franco Bedoya & François de Soyres 2018 Toward a New Social Contract: Taking on Distributional Tensions in Europe and Central Asia Maurizio Bussolo, María E. Dávalos, Vito Peragine & Ramya Sundaram Paris Climate Agreement and the Global Economy: Winners and Losers Muthukumara Mani, Deepika Wadhwa, Zekarias Hussein & Badri Narayanan Gopalakrishnan Does Job Polarization Explain the Rise in Earnings Inequality? Evidence from Europe Maurizio Bussolo, Ivan Torre & Hernan Winkler Wider Economic Benefits of Investments in Transport Corridors and the Role of Complementary Policies Siddharth Sharma, Martin Melecky & Hari Subhash Measuring districts' monthly economic activity from outer space Robert C. M. Beyer, Esha Chhabra, Virgilio Galdo & Martin Rama Search the Entire Series You can search the series by author, country, region, title, topic...etc. RELATED Randomized Controlled Trials in the South Asia Region : The South Asia Region at the World Bank has been using Randomized Controlled Trials (RCTs) to identify effective policies to overcome development challenges, especially in labor market outcomes, gender equality, and climate resilience. Additional Resources Learn More World Bank South Asia South Asia Economic Policy Network Macro Poverty Outlook for South Asia Contacts Office of the Chief Economist in South Asia sarchiefeconomistoffice@worldbank.org Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->