Education is key to Africa's growth, says Ousmane Diagana, World Bank Vice President Who We Are News OPINION August 13, 2025 Education is key to Africa's growth, says Ousmane Diagana, World Bank Vice President Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina OpEd published in Japanese in Nikkei on August 13, 2025. ******* Africa has a young population of 1.5 billion people and is expected to see great economic growth in the future. It is also rich in important mineral resources such as copper and cobalt. However, without access to quality education, no country's economic system can function, and economic prosperity cannot be expected. Enhancing education is undoubtedly the most effective development solution. Africa's population continues to grow at a rate of 2-3% per year. Some countries are doubling their population every 20 years. Given this demographic trend, investment in education is an urgent priority. Globally, there have been many improvements in education, but compared to South Asia and Latin America, for example, the situation in Africa is still much worse. The percentage of people who have not completed even primary education is high, and the quality of education is low. The World Bank has made education one of its top priorities. Education is essential for both economic prosperity and social stability. Those who have not received adequate education are unable to find employment and find it difficult to participate actively in a democratic system that requires individual decision-making. Part of the Sahel region south of the Sahara Desert is plagued by violence and conflict, and one of the reasons for this is that young people have not received adequate education and have extremely limited employment opportunities. Second chance education is a program being implemented in the Sahel region and other areas. It provides educational opportunities for young people under the age of 25. The aim is to eliminate factors that threaten social stability, such as lack of education and employment opportunities. An open school system for people who have reached a certain age is also being promoted. The aim is to enable them to attend school and receive vocational training to acquire the skills necessary for employment. In Ghana, investment in education is transforming society. The completion rate of primary education has increased, and this, combined with measures to combat diseases affecting the cocoa industry, has led to an increase in farmers' incomes. It is also important to enable people to receive education in their mother tongue. Since colonial times, education in Africa has been dominated by English, French, and Spanish, but foreign language instruction poses a barrier. Expanding education in mother tongues would make it easier to acquire skills, particularly in science and technology, and deepen interaction with local communities. The environment surrounding education in Africa has always been complex, but it has become even more so. Much of the investment in education has been funded by developed countries, including the United States, but the future is uncertain. Some countries have borrowed huge amounts of money for infrastructure development and are forced to prioritize repayment, leaving insufficient budget for education. Funds are also being diverted from adapting to severe climate change and security measures to prepare for conflicts and other problems. Although the public sector is responsible for education in each country, it may be necessary to consider mobilizing private funds to fill the funding gap in secondary and higher education. The African economy is supported by basic infrastructure, health, agriculture, tourism, and manufacturing. Investment in education and vocational training is needed to create more jobs in these sectors. Digital technology is a tool that can maximize access to education. The World Bank's digital strategy for Africa includes the use of online education. Although Africa lacks electricity and online educational materials and teachers, it is important to accelerate digitalization and establish a system that allows everyone to receive an education. Like South Asia, Africa faces the problem of gender inequality, particularly in primary education. The World Bank is working to recruit more women into teaching positions, serving as a role model, and has made dramatic progress, particularly in urban areas. However, problems remain in rural areas, and we would like to continue to address this issue along with the imbalance in educational opportunities between urban and rural areas. **** Ousmane Diagana , Vice President, Western and Central Africa Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×