Event | Join Live: Jobs | East Asia and Pacific Economic Update, October 2025 Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Join Live: Jobs | East Asia and Pacific Economic Update, October 2025 Share Overview Agenda Speakers People in East Asia and Pacific thrived because export-oriented, labor-intensive growth created more productive jobs. The region’s exports now face higher trade barriers, greater policy uncertainty and a sluggish global economy. And the region’s workers must cope with the growing use of robots, AI and digital platforms. Recent job growth has been largely in low productivity, often informal jobs, and the young struggle to find jobs. In most countries, more people are vulnerable to falling into poverty than are secure in the middle class. What can be done to create more productive jobs? Join our discussion on these issues. 09:01 PM ET Event begins 09:02 – 09:07 PM ET Opening remarks by Carlos Felipe Jaramillo, Vice President for East Asia and Pacific, World Bank 09:07 – 09:27 PM ET Presentation of the EAP Economic Update’s key findings by Aaditya Mattoo, Chief Economist, East Asia and Pacific, World Bank 09:27 – 10:00 PM ET Panel discussion moderated by Aaditya Mattoo Shinta Kamdani - Chairman of Employers’ Association of Indonesia (APINDO) Supavud Saicheua - Chairman of the National Economic and Social Development Council, Thailand Rebecca Fatima Sta Maria - Pro Chancellor of Sunway University and Former Executive Director of APEC 10:00 PM ET Event ends Opening Remarks: Carlos Felipe Jaramillo, Vice President for East Asia and Pacific, World Bank Presenter: Aaditya Mattoo, Chief Economist, East Asia and Pacific, World Bank Discussants: Shinta Widjaja Kamdani, Chairman of the Employers’ Association of Indonesia (APINDO) Rebecca Fatima Sta Maria, Director of IDEAS and Former Executive Director of APEC Supavud Saicheua, Chairman of the National Economic and Social Development Council, Thailand Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×