Planning Ahead: International Workshop Supports Tanzanian Climate Change Strategy --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Planning Ahead: International Workshop Supports Tanzanian Climate Change Strategy January 17, 2012 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> STORY HIGHLIGHTS Climate change affects daily life and the economy in Tanzania, a country largely dependent on agriculture More than 30 Tanzanian delegates met with representatives from various countries to learn and share knowledge on climate change planning Experts participated from Namibia, Mexico, South Africa and Zambia, all countries which have undertaken major climate change initiatives WINDHOEK, January 17, 2012 – Tanzanians are increasingly feeling the intense effects of climate change - it impacts most aspects of daily life and the economy in the East African country, which is largely dependent on agriculture. In 2005, a devastating drought affected millions of people, particularly those that rely on subsistence crops for food and income. Tanzania is also highly vulnerable to climate shocks, a trend which is expected to increase as droughts, floods, and tropical storms are likely to become more intense and unpredictable as the earth warms. And it is only expected to get worse. A recent UK Department for International Development (DIFD) study on the economics of climate change in Tanzania estimates that future climate change impacts could result in an annual loss of over two percent of the gross domestic product (GDP) by 2030. The same study also projected that Tanzania would need US$500 million per year to adapt to current extreme weather events now, while future adaptation could cost an additional US$150 millionannually. The high costs and interconnected impacts (agriculture, energy and water, the environment and the economy) makes climate change planning critical, but challenging. In an effort to support Tanzania’s preparation of a national climate change strategy, more than 30 Tanzanian decision-makers, researchers, and civil society advocates meet in Windhoek, Namibia for an international Learning Week on Global Best Practices in Comprehensive Climate Change Planning as a precursor to the 17th round of international climate negotiations in Durban in November 2011. Funded by the World Bank’s South-South Learning Exchange and DIFD, the Tanzania delegation was joined by climate change experts from Namibia, Mexico, South Africa and Zambia, all countries that have undertaken major initiatives to prepare for climate change at the national level. Ngosi Mwihava, the Deputy Permanent Secretary of the Tanzanian Ministry of Environment, said the delegation was eager to attend the workshop to “learn from the experience of other global leaders” about climate change policies and programs. Presentations and interactive discussions on practical topics ranged from how to set the vision to financing investments. There were differing approaches for climate change plans shared by representatives from each country, but participants found several common threads to successful strategies. For example, participants noted that strong leadership is critical to jump-starting and sustaining the planning process. Miguel A. Altamirano, Deputy Director of Adaptation at Mexico’s National Ecological Institute, described how Mexico’s President Felipe Calderón championed action on climate change and pushed the government to act. South Africa’s experience demonstrated the importance of well-organized stakeholder engagement. Irene Koenze, of the South African Ministry of Environment and Tourism, discussed how stakeholder engagement was an expensive, lengthy process. Yet the benefits were clear: a series of thematic workshops to gain input from the scientific community, civil society, and sectors across the government, together with a high degree of transparency, have been instrumental in moving forward South Africa’s Climate Change Response Strategy, Koenze said. In addition to the workshop discussions, participants visited several innovative climate change adaptation efforts at work in Namibia. At the Habitat Research and Development Centre, the group observed how local technologies and recycled materials are developed and tested for use in environmentally sustainable housing designs. Participants also visited factories that manufacture charcoal and compressed wood briquettes from invasive bush plants cleared from ranch lands and game preserves, demonstrating how waste can benefit wildlife and the environment by providing a better habitat and more a efficient energy source, as well as create jobs. Tanzanian delegates met to summarize the main takeaways from the workshop and next steps after returning from Windhoek. Tanzanian officials agreed on an action plan and invited the workshop participants to meet again to discuss progress on the national strategy. “The Tanzanian representation here strongly acknowledges the need to revamp the climate change process in Tanzania,” said Dr. Bonaventure Baya from the National Environmental Management Council. “We want to ensure there is new momentum in driving the process in Tanzania.” RELATED WORLD BANK Climate Change in Africa Blog: Africa Can End Poverty Blog: Nasikiliza EXTERNAL Economics of Climate Change in Tanzania National Institute of Ecology National Climate Change Response Habitat Research and Development Centre Tanzania Home Climate Change Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.