In the Amazonian far west, indigenous Brazilians fish for a better life --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY In the Amazonian far west, indigenous Brazilians fish for a better life April 19, 2013 This page in: English Português Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> A pirarucu for sale at a market in Jutaí, in the Alto Solimoes region. The fish is also referred to as the Amazonian cod. Jean-Martin Brault / World Bank STORY HIGHLIGHTS In the Alto Solimoes region, the population of pirarucus is on the rise again. The region, with 230,000 inhabitants, borders Peru and Colombia and is thinly populated. Approximately one-fifth of the local population is of indigenous descent. An Amazonian legend has it that the pirarucu, one of the world’s largest freshwater species, is an evil indigenous warrior turned fish. This species, which can reach 10 feet and 485 pounds, has a long and narrow body, a rounded tail, and a big mouth – believed to scare ancient fishermen. In modern days, however, the fish is known to have another superpower: the power to lift at least 1,500 indigenous families from poverty. They carry out a sustainable fishery management initiative in the Alto Solimões region. While illegal fishing activities start to fall, the population of pirarucus (among other species) is on the rise again, thanks to the effort. “Lakes used to be almost fished-off”, says fisherman Ataíde Gonçalves. The initiative is part of a greater project that seeks to improve livelihoods in one of the poorest Amazonian regions. It is conducted by state government of Amazonas and the World Bank. Every breath counts In this remote region, Pirarucus can be found in lakes connected to the Solimões River and located mostly inside indigenous lands. Project technicians and fishermen unions classified these lakes according to their usage: • Conservation lakes are used for breeding and cannot be touched; • At the fishery management lakes, fishermen can work from March to November and have a catch share; • At the “maintenance” lakes , there isn’t a close season and fishermen are allowed to work year-round. Environmental agents offer grassroots training on the environmental laws. Once the communities have been trained, fishermen and their families take shifts watching the lakes – and reporting illegal activities via radio. In August, the communities also carry out the fish count. Every 20 minutes, pirarucus swim up to breathe air, and while doing so, they make a particular noise. Experimented fishermen are able to analyze these signs and precisely estimate the fish population. The figures are then handed to Ibama, Brazil’s environmental authority – and the catch quota for each season is defined accordingly. " Lakes used to be almost fished-off " Ataíde Gonçalves Fisherman Changing small towns When the season comes, fishermen tag their catch (to make sure the pirarucus were legally caught) before sending them to the local markets. “Some families are now able to make up to BRL 1,000 (US$ 500) a month,” explains Geraldo Araújo, project sub-coordinator at the government of Amazonas. In addition to that, small cities such as Tonantins now have a regular economic activity. “We can not only feed our town, but many others around here,” proudly says José Oliveira, from the local fishermen’s union. “This is a great outcome in such an isolated and environmentally important area, where sustainable management of natural resources is pivotal,” says Agnes Velloso, project environmental specialist at the World Bank. Free from a heavy load Years ago, the men had to carry the catch on their backs for miles in paths inside the deep forests. With project help, they could afford to buy small tractors, which enable them to reach the local markets in less time. “This is something we’re so grateful for,” says fisherman Mário Andrade. Now, to reach for bigger markets, they need more access to refrigerated chambers, in and out their vehicles. “This is a need we found out as the implementation evolved,” Velloso comments. The team currently analyzes how to help them fill the demand – either within this project or with a supplemental initiative. Still, the results so far can be considered positive. “More than having a regular source of income, the beneficiaries have more control over their lands and feel the need to preserve their culture and the forest,” Araújo concludes. RELATED WORLD BANK Project Page Brazil - Home Page Brazil - News and Views Brazil Latin America and Caribbean Health Water Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.