World Bank comment on the proposed amendments to Law on National Bank of Serbia --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News OPINION World Bank comment on the proposed amendments to Law on National Bank of Serbia August 3, 2012 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Loup Brefort, Country Manager, World Bank in Serbia I am happy to have the opportunity to correct what I believe has been inaccurate statements about the position of the World Bank regarding the new proposed NBS Law On the occasion of her recent visit, during her meetings with members of Government and Head of State, our Regional Director advised against changing the existing law that was passed only 2 years ago and that is generally regarded as in line with best practices and she urged the authorities not to take steps that would compromise the actual or perceived independence of the National Bank The WB is concerned that a new law seems to be rushed through Parliament without the appropriate level of consultation for such a critically important piece of legislation At the request of the National Bank, the World Bank experts reviewed the proposed new draft (in less than 24hrs) and submitted yesterday a written opinion . In this communication, the WB raised - inter alia - some very serious concerns with proposed Articles 3 & 10, Article 9, Article 26 and Article 18. We hear that this last - that would have enabled NBS to finance Government deficit - may possibly be removed and we believe this would be a good step, but the other concerns remain. We can only urge the government and the members of Parliament to carefully consider possible impact of changing the existing law and introducing some of the provisions that are contemplated. RELATED Serbia Home Media Contacts In Beograd Vesna Kostic Tel : tel : +381 11 3023 747 vkostic@worldbank.org Serbia Europe and Central Asia Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.