Event | Ukraine: Virtual Market Sounding and Consultation Workshop for Supply of Two Semi-Gantry Cranes for Dnipro Hydroelectric Power Plant-2 (Dnipro-2 HPP), Zaporizhzhia Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Ukraine: Virtual Market Sounding and Consultation Workshop for Supply of Two Semi-Gantry Cranes for Dnipro Hydroelectric Power Plant-2 (Dnipro-2 HPP), Zaporizhzhia Share Overview PJSC “Ukrhydroenergo” (UHE) is pleased to invite interested firms to participate in the Virtual Market Sounding and Consultation Workshop dedicated to procurement of two special semi-gantry cranes complete with crane runways and a lifting beam for Dnipro Hydroelectric Power Plant-2 (Dnipro-2 HPP) located in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine. The procurement is funded by the World Bank as a part of Improving Power System Resilience for European Power Grid Integration Project (P176114) implemented by UHE in Ukraine. The workshop seeks to help UHE develop an optimal procurement and implementation strategy keeping in view the market readiness to assume the risks in light of the current situation in Ukraine and provide interested firms with an opportunity to raise any concerns regarding the upcoming procurement. UHE invites potential manufacturers, suppliers, or their authorized representatives to participate in the event to discuss the realistic and best options of delivery period, terms of delivery, as well as key requirements of the delivery scope of the associated services. The workshop will be conducted in English, and translation in Ukrainian will be provided for local potential bidders. Please note that the workshop is informational in its nature and intends solely to enhance UHE’s understanding of the market. It is not part of the formal bidding process. To support the discussions, UHE kindly asks you to provide the information requested in the Invitation published at https://en.uhe.gov.ua/news/invitation-virtual-market-sounding-and-consultation-workshop . All submitted information will be treated as confidential and will not be shared with other participants or disclosed during the workshop. Please return the completed questionnaires prior to the event to the emails given below. Contact Information Mrs. Olga Hryshchenko, Director of International Projects Implementation Department PJSC «UKRHYDROENERGO», email: o.hryshchenko@uhe.gov.ua Mrs. Olga Yarysh, Manager of Contract Managers Group PJSC «UKRHYDROENERGO», email: o.yarysh@uhe.gov.ua Yanina Lykhatska, Deputy Director of International Projects Implementation Department PJSC «UKRHYDROENERGO», e-mail: ya.lykhatska@uhe.gov.ua Meeting information Link to the webinar on the Zoom platform: Time: Aug 6, 2025 Date: 11:00am Kyiv time, Ukraine Join Zoom Meeting https://us06web.zoom.us/j/85016564129?pwd=srDQlroQj5DTT11Wz1K5aUEPYiqmuj.1 Meeting ID: 850 1656 4129 Passcode: 347122 Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×