Looking for ideas to fight traffic accidents “epidemic” --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Looking for ideas to fight traffic accidents “epidemic” June 18, 2012 This page in: English Español Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> World Bank (Gonzalo Martínez) STORY HIGHLIGHTS Uruguay has the worst rate in the region: 23 deaths per 100,000 people. Traffic accidents are the first cause of death among young people. Uruguay seeks to put into practice lessons learned in Argentina. Gerardo Barrios, Director of UNASEV (National Road Safety Security Unit) says "traffic accidents are the worst epidemic in Uruguay”. Numbers seem to prove it: with 23 deaths per 100,000 people, Uruguay has the worst rate in the region, four times higher than in European countries. Traffic accidents have increased rapidly and are the first cause of death among young people. In order to fight this problem, a working lunch took place in Montevideo on May 7, to exchange South-South ideas about road safety. Felipe Rodríguez Laguens, Director of the National Road Safety of Argentina, and Corina Puppo, Director of the National Road Safety Observatory of Argentina, shared the lessons learned and successful measures that achieved significant results in Argentina. Veronica Raffo, Program Coordinator for the World Bank in Argentina, promoted this exchange. " Traffic accidents are the worst epidemic in Uruguay " Gerardo Barrios Director of National Road Safety Security Unit More than 50 people, including representatives of the Department of Transportation and Public Works, the National Road Safety Unit, the Highway Patrol and transit directors of several provinces, attended the meeting. NGOs like Alejandra Forlán Foundation, the Road Safety National Institute (ISEV), Gonchi Rodriguez Foundation and the private sector, including the Automobile Club of Uruguay, also assisted The most interesting exchange was Argentina´s experience, which was supported by the World Bank. Although Uruguay has designed similar policies, it had some difficulties putting them into practice. Participants were able to enrich from the experience of its Argentinean neighbors, such as overcoming the difficulties of multiple jurisdictions or the financing of the Road Safety Unit, and were deeply interested in the presentations. All the experts agreed it was a great opportunity to approach other key actors, whose cooperation is essential to combat this epidemic. RELATED WORLD BANK Home Uruguay Uruguay Transport Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.