Forging a brighter future for disabled children living with HIV/AIDS in Kenya --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Forging a brighter future for disabled children living with HIV/AIDS in Kenya December 1, 2014 This page in: English العربية Español Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> STORY HIGHLIGHTS In 2012, an estimated 1.6 million people were living with HIV and roughly 57,000 people died from AIDS-related illnesses. Since 2007, the World Bank's Total War Against AIDS Project counseled over 5 million people for HIV and provided grants to more than 10,000 community-based organizations so that they can respond to local needs in HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation. These grants are empowering local communities to create, implement, and manage smaller projects that have helped bring essential services closer to people, including children born with disabilities and HIV/AIDS in pastoralist communities. SAMBURU, December 1, 2014 - For generations, the pastorialists of Samburu, a nomadic county 400 kilometers north of Nairobi, have roamed from place to place in search of water and pasture for their animals. “In such nomadic communities, it is sometimes common for children born with disabilities and HIV/AIDS to be abandoned by their families because they cannot help them herd animals in distant fields,” says Grace Seneiya, who opened a school for disabled children living with HIV/AIDS in Samburu. "I met a blind boy who had been abandoned by his parents when I was teaching at a small school in Barangui. I had to take him in." The Samburu Handicapped Education and Rehabilitation Program (SHERP) received a $4000 grant to train health workers to ensure that the 150 disabled children living with HIV/AIDS at SHERP had access to nutrition, medicine, and home care that they required. "One of the causes of disability is that many women here do not go to hospitals to deliver babies with the help of a skilled health professional," says Grace. Maternal mortality in Kenya is among Africa's highest at 488 deaths per 100,000 live births. The proportion of women who deliver with skilled attendance is only 44 percent and has remained largely unchanged since 1993. SHERP is one of the more than 10,000 community-based organizations in Kenya who received a grant to help respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic nationwide. Supported by $135 million dollars in funding from the World Bank, this component of the Total War Against HIV and AIDS (TOWA) Project empowers community-based organizations such as SHERP to expand the coverage of HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation activities in their local communities. Through this project, communities are empowered to create, implement, and manage smaller projects that contribute to the national response to HIV/AIDS. Kenya has the fourth largest HIV epidemic in the world. In 2012, an estimated 1.6 million people were living with HIV and roughly 57,000 people died from AIDS-related illnesses. There are now 1.1 million orphans to the epidemic. The epidemic varies in different parts of the country with the Nyanza province with the highest overall prevalence of 15 percent, followed by Nairobi with 10 percent. Through TOWA, Kenya’s Ministry of Health and the National AIDS Control Counsel, distributed over 3 million insecticide treated bed nets and 300 million condoms nationwide. It also funded grants to more than 10,000 community based organizations to raise awareness of HIV/AIDS. As a result, between 2007 and 2012, HIV prevalence was reduced from 7.2% to 5.6% and new infections declined by 40%. Community-based organizations have helped contribute to the national response to HIV/AIDS, by empowering communities to respond to local changes. " Devolution is a blessing for this county. People are getting better services in the hospitals because the people providing these services are from here. So services are being brought closer to people. " Grace The 2010 Constitution introduced a decentralization process at a scale never seen before elsewhere. It created 47 new counties and transferred to them significant responsibilities, including service delivery. Devolution is one of the key focus areas in the 2014-2018 World Bank's new Country Partnership Strategy with Kenya . RELATED WORLD BANK Kenya HIV and AIDS Kenya Data Kenya Home Health Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.