Event | African Higher Education Centers of Excellence: A Decade of Impact, Innovation, and Excellence Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events African Higher Education Centers of Excellence: A Decade of Impact, Innovation, and Excellence Share Celebration of the 10th anniversary of the Africa's Higher Education Centers of Excellence Objectives The Africa’s Higher Education Centers of Excellence (ACEs), together with their partners, will get together to celebrate their 10th Anniversary in a high-level forum. Specifically, this grand event aims to: Celebrate a decade of achievements , highlighting key successes, research breakthroughs, and innovations, and showcasing data-driven insights on how the ACEs, as catalysts, have strengthened higher education institutions, regional collaboration, and industry linkages and produced meaningful impact to communities. Share best practices and reflect on lessons learned , engaging stakeholders in discussing remaining challenges and opportunities for improvement based on the ACE experience. Discuss sustainability strategies , exploring policy frameworks, institutional reforms, and financing modalities to sustain and expand ACE achievements and impact. Engage development partners and chart the future , through dialogue with governments, industry leaders, and international partners, soliciting their continued support, and discussing opportunities for future collaboration in shaping and producing the next generation of African researchers, innovators, and entrepreneurs across the continent to accelerate its development and economic transformation. Organizers The event is co-organized by the Association of African Universities (AAU) and the Inter-University Council for East Africa (IUCEA), with the support of the World Bank and the French Development Agency (AFD). Participants Over 500 key stakeholders from African governments, higher education institutions including the ACEs, industry, development agencies, civil society, and the media. Overview BACKGROUND AGENDA RELATED LEARN MORE Follow the conversation online #AceAt10 Facebook: World Bank Africa X: @WorldBankAfrica Facebook: World Bank Ghana ACE@10 Live Stream: Celebrating a Decade of Impact, Innovation, and Excellence CONTACT: Millicent Afriyie Kyei, makyei@aau.org CONTACT: Agnes Asiimwe, aasiimwe@iucea.org CONTACT: Kennedy Fosu, kfosu@worldbank.org CONTACT: Sylvie Nenonene, snenonene@worldbank.org The Africa’s Higher Education Centers of Excellence (ACE) program is the first large scale regional program funded by the World Bank in the higher education sector in Africa. Through a series of three projects - ACE1 (2014-2020); ACE2 (2016 to date); and ACE Impact (2019 to date)— the program has supported competitively selected ACEs with specializations in regional development priority areas to deliver high-quality postgraduate training, skills-upgrading for professionals, applied research, entrepreneurship and innovation in priority sectors such as science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM), agriculture, health, environment, and education. Across these projects, the World Bank has committed a total of US$657 million in support to participating governments, with an additional co-financing of US$72 million equivalent from the French Development Agency (AFD) for the ACE Impact project. In total, the ACE Program has supported some 80 centers in more than 50 universities across 20 countries in sub-Saharan Africa. By leveraging economies of scale, with the support of regional bodies and governments of hosting countries, through enhancing teaching/research facilities, sharing good practices in teaching and learning, promoting cross-border collaboration and research networks, as well as collectively addressing the needs of higher-level skills and research/innovation for the priority sectors, these ACEs have achieved remarkable results. They significantly expanded the capacity of postgraduate training with an enrollment of more than 90,000 students (including over 7,650 PhDs and 30,200 Masters), over 32% of whom are female. They increased research output with over 10,350 publications, increased sustainability with self-generated over US$183 million external revenues, improved linkage with industries with more than 18,000 internships, and enhanced academic quality with 600 programs nationally accredited and over 130 programs internationally accredited. Building on this success, the ACE Program is working with partners and mobilizing resources with a focus more on sharing best practices, strengthening further institutional capacities, fostering entrepreneurship, innovation and technology transfer, and promoting further in-country and cross-border collaborations, in priority sector areas, for greater impact. Monday April 7, 2025 Time Session 08:00 – 09:30 Registration and Coffee 09:30 – 10:00 Plenary Session I: Welcome Ceremony Omanye Conference Center (Labadi Beach Hotel) Moderator: Anita Erskine, Erskine Global Communications, Ghana Welcome Remarks Prof. Olusola B. Oyewole, Secretary General, Association of African Universities (AAU) Prof. Gaspard Banyankimbona, Executive Secretary, Inter-University Council for East Africa (IUCEA) Keynote Address The Vision for Higher Education for Africa and The Journey So Far – 10 Years of ACE, by Prof. Nana Aba Appiah Amfo, Vice Chancellor, University of Ghana 10:00 – 11:10 Plenary Session II: Sustaining and Scaling the Impact of the ACE Program – The Next Decade of Transformation Omanye Conference Center (Labadi Beach Hotel) Description: The session will bring together perspectives from policymakers, university leaders, center leaders, and development partners to identify strategies, share experiences and develop a roadmap for the future. Key themes will include the key enablers of sustainability, strategies for scaling, and future directions. The session will also include Q&A with the audience. Moderator: Franz Drees-Gross, Acting Regional Practice Director for Africa Regional Integration, World Bank. Panelists: Hon. Dr. Jessie Kabwira, Minister for Higher Education, Malawi Hon. Mourana Soumah, Minister of Economy and Finance, Guinea Prof. Celestin Obua, Chairman of Uganda Examination Board and Former Vice Chancellor, Mbarara University of Science and Technology Prof. Eric Danquah, Center Leader, WACCI, Ghana Mrs. Sophia Ndemutila Ashipala, Head of Education, African Union Gabrielle Leroux, Higher Education Lead, Agence Française de Développement 11:10 – 11:30 Protocol and arrival of the President of the Republic of Ghana 11:30 – 12:30 Plenary Session III: Opening Ceremony Omanye Conference Center (Labadi Beach Hotel) Description: Official event opening and welcome ceremony Moderator: Anita Erskine, Erskine Global Communications, Ghana Arrival of His Excellency, John Dramani Mahama, President of the Republic of Ghana. The Ghana national anthem follows. Spoken Word Albert Arden, Graduate Student, University of Ghana Opening Message Hon. Haruna Iddrisu, Minister for Education, The Republic of Ghana Results Video A short video presentation of the achievements of the ACE Program over a decade, including project highlights Opening Address Mr. Ousmane Diagana, Regional Vice President for Western and Central Africa, World Bank His Excellency, John Dramani Mahama, President of the Republic of Ghana Group photo: President of the Republic of Ghana; World Bank Regional Vice President; and Minister for Education, Republic of Ghana Cultural performance and the departure of the President of the Republic of Ghana (accompanied by the Regional Vice President, World Bank; and the Minister for Education, Republic of Ghana) 12:30 – 14:30 Lunch and Exhibition Walkthrough Closed Door Ministerial Roundtable and Lunch Assigned Room: Lobby Raised Area, Labadi Beach Hotel Chair: Mr. Ousmane Diagana, Regional Vice President for Western and Central Africa, World Bank Facilitator: Ms. Scherezad Latif, Education Practice Manager for Western and Central Africa, World Bank Ministers of Finance & Education from participating countries World Bank Management Team 14:30 – 15:45 Reflections on the Africa Higher Education Centers of Excellence Program & Considerations for the Future. Peter Materu, Chief Program Officer, Mastercard Foundation Plenary Session IV: The Power of Partnerships: Cross-sectoral, cross-regional, cross-border collaborations Omanye Conference Center (Labadi Beach Hotel) Description: The session will feature the different partnerships and partnership experience across the ACEs to highlight the collaborative spirit and reach of the ACE program and generate new ideas for collaboration. Panelists will highlight what has worked well, how challenges to establishing and maintaining partnerships were overcome, their impact and future direction. Moderator: Waly Wane, Education Practice Manager for Western and Central Africa, World Bank Panelists: Prof. Kokouvi Edem N'TSOUKPOE, Centre Leader, CoE 2IE, Burkina Faso Prof Simon Bamire, Vice Chancellor, Obafemi Awolowo University, Nigeria Prof. Hang’ombe Bernard, Former Center Leader (ACEIDHA), DVC Copperbelt, Zambia Prof. Gerald Misinzo, Center Leader, SACIDS, Tanzania Dr. Wondosson Mulugeta Gewe- Vice President of Addis Ababa University, Ethiopia Discussant: Mr. Hiroshi Mochizuki, Senior Deputy Director, Education Group, Japan International Cooperation Agency 15:45 – 16:10 Coffee Break 16:10 – 17:00 Plenary V: Driving Excellence: Key Achievements and Lessons from the ACE Journey Omanye Conference Center (Labadi Beach Hotel) Moderator: Dr. Halil Dundar, Education Global Practice Manager, World Bank Presentation on ACE results and lessons learned Dr. Sylvia Mkandawire, Senior Project Manager, ACE Impact, AAU Dr Jude Ssebuwufu, Coordinator ACE II, IUCEA Tuesday April 8, 2025 09:00 – 10:30 Plenary VI: Research to Enterprise: Inspiring Stories of Young Entrepreneurs Adesa Pavillion, Labadi Beach Hotel Description: In this session, cutting-edge research combines with entrepreneurial drive. The session highlights the journey of inspiring entrepreneurs whose innovative start-ups are making a real impact in Africa. Moderator: Prof Mamadou Saliou Diallo, PSC Member, Guinea Speakers: Dr. Yaw Bediako, Yemaachi BioTech, WACCBIP Jimmy Angupale, PHARMBIOTRAC Peace Mnelemba, AQUAFISH Discussant: Mr. Abdoul-Wahab ANNOU, Head of the Incubation and Entrepreneurship Center, (2iE), Burkina Faso 10:30 – 11:00 Coffee Break 11:00 – 12:30 Plenary VII: Women in STEM and Leadership: Breaking Barriers, Driving Change Adesa Pavillion, Labadi Beach Hotel Description: Women are shaping the future of STEM research, innovation and university leadership; yet they remain underrepresented in these critical fields. This panel brings together accomplished women leaders and researchers in STEM to discuss barriers to leadership in research, academia and industry, and strategies to overcome them, and opportunities for institutional and policy change. Moderator: Ms. Trina Haque, Regional Practice Director for People (Human Development), World Bank Panelists: Prof. Emily Akuno, VC Jaramogi Oginga Odinga University of Science and Technology, Kenya Prof. Folasade Tolulope Ogunsola, VC University of Lagos, Nigeria Dr. Ruth Magreta, Deputy Center Leader, APA, Malawi Ms. Fawzia Muhammed Zuka, Student, ACECOR, University of Cape Coast, Ghana 12:30 – 14:00 Lunch (transition to La Palm Royal Beach Hotel for Sectoral Breakout Sessions) 14:00 – 17:00 Sectoral Breakout Session – Reflections on experiences so far, lessons and focusing on the future Description: Each sectoral session will feature discussions among centers reflecting on successes and challenges in key areas: student and faculty development; advancing research; translating research into industry and policy impact; partnerships; and sustainability. Moderators will facilitate discussions inviting center leaders to give lightning talks on these areas, the processes that have led to success, and the challenges that they have overcome or those that remain. Sessions will highlight future focus areas and the enabling factors required to make progress. (See Annex 1) 14:00 – 15:30 Parallel Session: Vice Chancellors Roundtable Omanye Conference Center (Labadi Beach Hotel) Description: A roundtable discussion to engage VCs on how host university and ACEs can work together and use ACE(s) as catalyst for institutional transformation and how universities can better support sustainability of centers going forward. Chair : Ms. Trina Haque, Regional Practice Director for People (Human Development), World Bank Moderator : Ms. Lily Mulatu, Education Practice Manager for Eastern and Southern Africa, World Bank Spotlights: VC Uganda Martyrs University: Prof Patrick Kyamanywa, Uganda VC Eduardo Mondlane: Prof Doutor Manuel Guilherme, Mozambique (Consider Portuguese transaltion). Prof. Ballo Zié, President, Université Félix Houphouët-Boigny, Côte d’Ivoire Dr Daouda Kéita, L'Institut supérieur des mines et de la géologie de Boké, Guinea Dr Wondosson Mulugeta Gewe- Vice President of Addis Ababa University, Ethiopia 18:00 – 20:00 ACE@10 Group Dinner La Palm Royal Beach Hotel Wednesday April 9, 2025 9:00 – 10:30 Plenary VIII: Industry Perspectives on Research and Innovation in Africa Description: This session will discuss how Africa’s ability to compete in the global knowledge economy hinges on developing a highly skilled workforce equipped to drive cutting-edge research, innovation and industry transformation. Experts from the AI and health sectors will share their perspectives and expectations and ACEs specializing in these areas will offer reflections on how their centers are addressing this demand for advanced skills and research. Assigned Room: Adesa Pavillion, Labadi Beach Hotel Moderator: Jana Kunicova, Digital Transformation Practice Manager for Western and Central Africa, World Bank Panelists: Mr. John Baptist Matogo, Middle East and Africa Leader, IBM Dr. Anthony Laud Basing, CEO INCAS Diagnostics Reflections: Prof. Charles Ruranga, Center Leader ACE-DC, University of Rwanda Prof. Gordon Awandare, Center Leader, WACBBIP, Ghana 10:30 – 11:00 Coffee Break 11:00 – 12:00 Plenary IX: Reporting Back on Sectoral Breakout Sessions Adesa Pavillion, Labadi Beach Hotel Description: This session will offer a platform for subject matter experts to share key insights and highlights from the sectoral discussions on Day 2 with the wider audience. Moderator: Prof. Alassane B. Ndiaye, ACE Subject Matter Expert in Transport and Logistics 4 minute each: Health Session Agriculture Session Mining Session Urban/Transport Session ICT Session Education Session Water Session Energy and Environment Session 12:00 – 13:00 Plenary X: Closing Ceremony Adesa Pavillion, Labadi Beach Hotel Moderator: Mr. Kafui Dey, Journalist, Ghana Broadcasting Corporation Vote of Thanks: Prof. Gaspard Banyankimbona, Executive Secretary, Inter-University Council for East Africa (IUCEA) Prof. Olusola B. Oyewole, Secretary General, Association of African Universities (AAU) Mr. Robert Taliercio Division Director for Ghana, Sierra Leone and Liberia, World Bank Closing Reflection Prof. Alpha Kabinet KEITA, Rector, Université Gamal Abdel Nasser de Conakry, Guinea Closing Keynote Address From Vision to Reality: Lessons, Challenges, and the Path Forward for African Higher Education - Dr. Kojo Appiah, RSC Member ACE II (Technologist & Engineering Advisor – Global Semiconductor Industry) and Co-Founder & Chairman, The African Network, Inc. Closing Address: Prof. Ahmed Jinapor Abdulai, Acting Director-General, Ghana Tertiary Education Commission Hon. Haruna Iddrisu, Minister for Education, Republic of Ghana GROUP PHOTO 13:00 – 14:30 Lunch Break (Move to La Palm Royal Beach Hotel) 14:30 – 16:30 ACE Impact Project Steering Committee Meeting Room: Bugum, La Palm Royal Beach ACE II Meetings: A special RSC Meeting IUCEA RSC World Bank Room: Odwira, La Palm Royal Beach IMMERSIVE STORY - The African Centers of Excellence: 10 Years of Innovation and Impact OPED by Ousmane Diagana and Mamta Murthi - Empowering Africa's Future - How Higher Education Centers of Excellence Are Driving Innovation PRESS RELEASE - Africa's Higher Education Centers of Excellence: Celebrating a decade of transformative journey in revolutionizing Africa’s contribution to global research and innovation MEDIA ADVISORY - Ghana To Host ACE@10: Celebrating a Decade of Impact and Innovation of Africa Centers of Excellence Program Event Details Date: April 07 - 09, 2025 ET Location: Labadi Beach Hotel, Accra, Ghana Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×