What Are Green Bonds? --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Understanding Poverty Topics Climate Change BRIEF What Are Green Bonds? December 1, 2015 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Climate change affects all of us. But it is expected to hit developing countries the hardest. Its potential effects on temperatures, precipitation patterns, sea levels, and frequency of weather-related disasters pose risks for agriculture, food, and water supplies. At stake are recent gains in the fight against poverty, hunger and disease, and the lives and livelihoods of people in developing countries. The good news is that there are many solutions to address climate change, but they need financing. Green bonds is one of the financing options available to private firms and public entities to support climate and environmental investments. Investors are attracted to green bonds because they allow a closer connection to positive social and environmental impacts. The World Bank Treasury created the “ What Are Green Bonds? ” guide to help people without a finance background better understand the nature of green bonds. What are green bonds? How do they work? Who is issuing them and who buys them? What’s the benefit? Learn more and download the guide here. Arabic Translation Chinese Translation Japanese Translation Spanish Translation RELATED Guide : What are Green Bonds? Download the App : Blippar - Augmented Reality Join the Live Chat : Monday, December 7, 2015 Home Climate Change East Asia Pacific Europe and Central Asia South Asia --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.