Overview Where We Work Home This page in: English العربية This page in: English العربية --> The World Bank In Saudi Arabia The World Bank’s partnership with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia started in 1975. The Kingdom supports the World Bank Group efforts in its mission of ending extreme poverty and boosting shared prosperity. Home Overview Overview Context Saudi Arabia has embarked on a major economic and social transformation outlined in its Vision 2030: diversification away from oil and a renewed social contract. It is expected that the "thriving economy" foreseen in Vision 2030 will be achieved through major change in the economic model, with a shift towards a new paradigm based on increased productivity. To achieve this, the role of the state is changing from driver of the economy to enabler of private sector-led growth. The transition is focusing on four key elements: (i) raising the quality of human capital, (ii) an improved business environment capable of attracting foreign investment, (iii) a high-quality public administration, and (iv) a flexible and competitive labor market. Saudi Arabia and the World Bank have signed the first Technical Cooperation Program (TCP) Agreement. Under the TCP, the World Bank brings technical expertise and global knowledge to government entities to support the country’s development agenda. The advisory program is aligned with, and supports, the implementation of Vision 2030 and the National Transformation Program. Over the last few years, the program has been expanded to cover various sectors, including improving the investment climate, education, health, labor markets, transport, energy, urban planning, economic management and planning, public financial management, digital economy, PPPs, and SME strategy. The RAS engagements focus on strengthening institutional capacity within government entities and assisting in developing the legislation and policies that advance Vision 2030 goals and objectives. In addition to working with the World Bank through RAS, the Kingdom has also become a key development partner to the World Bank. For example, the government pledged US$700m to IDA20 in December 2021 and, prior to that, US$400m to IDA19 just two years earlier. Through its contributions to other selected funds, the KSA reinforces its status as a key partner to the World Bank in the effort to end extreme poverty and boost shared prosperity worldwide. RELATED The World Bank in the GCC MULTIMEDIA Saudi Arabia’s Digital and Distance Education View All Multimedia Arrow Saudi Arabia’s Digital and Distance Education STAY CONNECTED Facebook Twitter Blog In Depth Feb 08, 2022 Saudi Arabia’s Digital and Distance Education This report examines Saudi Arabia’s journey to digital and distance education following the COVID-19 pandemic and identifies the strengths of the response to the pandemic in K-12 education and the opportunities for ... Saudi Arabia’s Digital and Distance Education PeopleImages.com - #1623778 Tracing Labor Market Outcomes in Saudi Arabia This paper exploits a rich dataset from various administrative sources to study short- and medium-term labor market outcomes of vocational education and training graduates in Saudi Arabia. Tracing Labor Market Outcomes in Saudi Arabia Ministry of Education - Kuwait Paving the Way for Women in GCC This engagement note in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) aims to identify entry points that respond to the strategic goals and country development priorities announced by GCC member states. This note provides an ... Paving the Way for Women in GCC Additional Resources Related The Office of the Executive Director Country Office Contacts Riyadh wbgcc@worldbank.org This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×