A Call for Countries & Companies to Support a Price on Carbon --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY A Call for Countries & Companies to Support a Price on Carbon May 5, 2014 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Curt Carnemark / World Bank STORY HIGHLIGHTS Through a statement of support to be launched at the UN Secretary-General's Climate Summit, countries and companies could work to strengthen carbon pricing policies and implementation to better manage investment risks and opportunities and share their expertise. The proposed statement reflects a sense of urgency and inevitably for carbon pricing. Growing momentum by countries and businesses in support of carbon pricing was evident at a meeting of government officials, corporate leaders and investors ahead of the summit. The debate over carbon pricing has shifted, with the focus moving from whether to have carbon pricing to how to put an effective price on carbon. The change comes in the face of scientific warnings, clear evidence of countries acting to spur low-carbon development, companies moving to develop business strategies for a carbon-constrained world, and a groundswell of interest in how to use economic policy and business planning to transition to low-carbon and resilient development. In the run-up to the UN Secretary-General's Climate Summit in September, the World Bank Group, together with other partners, is calling for countries and companies to get behind this effort and support a proposed statement that will demonstrate the global support and action toward pricing carbon that is necessary to tackle climate change. “We are encouraging countries, sub-national jurisdictions, and companies to join a growing coalition of first movers to support putting a price on carbon,” said Rachel Kyte, World Bank Group vice president and special envoy for climate change. “A carbon price provides a necessary signal for investment in low-carbon and resilient growth and, regardless of the mechanism used, should be part of any package of policies to scale up mitigation.” Kyte was speaking at a session on carbon pricing during the Abu Dhabi Ascent , a preparatory meeting for the UN Secretary-General’s Climate Summit, to be held in New York on Sept. 23. Together with senior representatives from China, Morocco, the European Commission, European Investment Bank, IKEA, the Carbon Disclosure Project and the International Emissions Trading Association, she drew attention to a proposed public statement that reflects a sense of urgency and inevitably for carbon pricing. Public and private sector leaders are invited to support the proposed statement, which could be released at the UN Summit. In the statement, they agree to work together toward the long-term goal of a carbon price applied throughout the global economy by: • Strengthening carbon pricing policies to redirect investment commensurate with the scale of the climate challenge; • Bringing forward and strengthening the implementation of existing carbon pricing policies to better manage investment risks and opportunities; and • Enhancing cooperation to share information, expertise and lessons learned on developing and implementing carbon pricing through various “readiness” platforms. A carbon price can be achieved through markets or taxes, and different instruments will be appropriate in different countries for different sectors of the economy. Market-based mechanisms are likely to deliver large-scale emission reductions more efficiently and quickly. The good news is that a growing number of countries, provinces, and cities are already designing carbon pricing solutions. " A carbon price provides a necessary signal for investment in low-carbon and resilient growth and, regardless of the mechanism used, should be part of any package of policies to scale up mitigation. " Rachel Kyte World Bank Group Vice President and Special Envoy for Climate Change About 40 national and 20 sub-national jurisdictions have adopted emissions trading schemes or carbon taxes, with Chile most recently announcing plans for a carbon tax. Together, these countries and regions account for 22 percent of global emissions. Many more are developing systems that will put a price on carbon. Altogether, these actions will encompass almost half of global CO 2 emissions. At the same time, the private sector is responding. Many companies are already operating in countries that have a carbon pricing system in place and are developing expertise in both managing their emissions and incorporating a real or shadow carbon price in their planning and investments. Others have called for a price on carbon . According to the investor group Ceres , 96 of the combined 173 companies in the Fortune 100 and Global 100 have gone further to set voluntary greenhouse gas reduction targets, leading them to accelerate their investment in energy efficiency, renewable energy and sustainable forestry. Last month, World Bank Group President Jim Yong Kim urged governments to take on the issue of carbon pricing as they develop solutions equal to the challenges created by climate change. “Taking action now will not only solve the problems of protecting the planet, but it will be a tremendous boost for economies,” President Kim told the press before a closed-door meeting with finance ministers. Despite the fact that it is controversial, we have to tackle the issue of carbon pricing. Some countries are working very hard on this; others know that it is a direction that we have to go.” RELATED WORLD BANK Statement : Putting a Price on Carbon Report : Mapping Carbon Pricing Initiatives 2013: Developments and Prospects Infographic : Carbon Markets of the World Brief : Globally Networked Carbon Markets EXTERNAL Website : Abu Dhabi Ascent Website : UN Climate Summit MULTIMEDIA Video VIDEO Leaders: We Must Address Climate Change Threat Gulf Cooperation Council Climate Change Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.