Infográfico: Índice de Oportunidades Humanas --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are Notícias infographic infográfico Infográfico: Índice de Oportunidades Humanas 24 de outubro de 2016 Esta página em: English Português Español Email Imprimir Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> O relatório do Banco Mundial Índice de Oportunidades Humanas (IOH) 2016: Buscando Oportunidades para Todos avalia em que medida as crianças e jovens até 16 anos têm acesso aos serviços necessários para uma vida produtiva, como educação, água e saneamento, eletricidade e internet. Embora a análise mostre importantes avanços no acesso à eletricidade e à matrícula escolar ‒ mais de 90% de cobertura ‒, a região ainda está defasada no acesso a água potável, saneamento e internet. Brasil América Latina e Caribe (i) Pobreza (i) RELACIONADO BANCO MUNDIAL Índice de Oportunidades Humanas Comunicado à imprensa EXTERNO ONU News em Português - Banco Mundial: fim da pobreza requer melhor acesso a oportunidades --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.