$200 Million Catalyst to Recharge Sri Lanka's Health System --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY $200 Million Catalyst to Recharge Sri Lanka's Health System April 3, 2013 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Simone D. McCourtie/World Bank STORY HIGHLIGHTS Sri Lanka has better health indicators than most developing countries and many lower-middle-income countries. But as it develops economically and its population ages, it is seeing growing problems in areas such as nutrition and non-communicable diseases. A $200 million World Bank loan will help upgrade the public health system and enable it to better respond to these challenges. This project will benefit the entire population, and will help revolutionize the system by improving the linkages between budgeting, planning, and monitoring in the health sector. Sri Lanka has impressive health achievements when compared to other developing and lower-middle-income countries. Maternal and infant mortality rates are at 36 per 100,000 and 12.2 per 1,000 live births, respectively. The country is experiencing a demographic and epidemiological transition, partly due to its success in the health sector -- an aging population with life expectancy at 74.9 years, and 9.2% of the population over 60. In the last 50 years, Sri Lanka has seen a reduction from 42% to 20% in the proportion of deaths due to infectious diseases, yet the percentage of deaths from cardiovascular disease has risen from 3% to 24%. Nutrition also poses a problem in Sri Lanka, where under-nutrition and over-nutrition coexist, sometime within the same family. The rising trends in non-communicable diseases are associated with the changing age distribution, economic development, urbanization, increased motorization, and changes in lifestyle. To help address these issues, the International Development Association approved a $200 million loan to the government of Sri Lanka on March 27. “Investing in further improvement of the health system will be a critical prerequisite for Sri Lanka’s vision,” said Diarietou Gaye , country director, World Bank Sri Lanka. “A more modernized and efficient health system employing more international standards will not only help achieve the objective of improving living standards and social inclusion, but it will also contribute to the broader objectives set out in the Mahinda Chintana document, including sustained economic growth, and a move toward a knowledge-based and competitive economy.” " Investing in further improvement of the health system will be a critical prerequisite for Sri Lanka’s vision. " Diarietou Gaye Country Director, World Bank Sri Lanka The Second Health Sector Development Project will help ensure that Sri Lanka will not become complacent with its impressive health indicators, but rather push forward to tackle areas that need additional attention, such as nutrition and non-communicable diseases. In addition, the project will give opportunities to enhance and update the skills and knowledge of health staff across the country and to further improve the quality and efficiency of health services in Sri Lanka. The project is expected to become effective in August 2013 and will close in September 2018. The terms of the concessionary loan are a 1.25% interest rate with a grace period of five years and a 20-year repayment period. $190 million will be added to the government of Sri Lanka's Health Master Plan , and $10 million will go toward capacity building, results monitoring, research, and innovation in health care. “The current health system needs improvements to deal effectively with emerging health problems of a middle-income country such as ours,” said Kumari Vinodhani Navaratne, World Bank senior health specialist. “Developing a modern health management information system, establishment of a quality assurance system, strengthening the capacity for results-based planning and management, and strengthening the coordination between institutions and agencies for coordinated development and continuing human resource development are essential to improve the health system and better address the changing health needs of Sri Lanka.” A System of Checks and Balances The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Health in close collaboration with the Ministry of Local Government and Provincial Councils, Finance Commission, all nine provincial councils and the respective Provincial Health Departments. The Ministry of Finance and Planning will provide overall oversight to the project. The project will be monitored through a project steering committee with representation from the Ministries of Health, Finance, Local Government and Provincial Councils, Finance Commission and the nine provinces. In addition, at each of the levels from district to the central level, the project will be monitored as part of the monitoring of the National Health Development Plan. An update on the agreed results will be reviewed biannually, and the achievement of the agreed annual targets will be reported to the Word Bank by the Ministry of Finance and verified by the World Bank in consultation with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health annually. RELATED WORLD BANK Press Release: World Bank Provides $200 Million to Enhance Health Sector Services in Sri Lanka Second Health Sector Development Project documents Feature Story: Tackling Non-Communicable Diseases in Sri Lanka Report: Prevention and Control of Selected Chronic NCDs in Sri Lanka: Policy Options and Action World Bank in Sri Lanka World Bank Sri Lanka on Facebook EXTERNAL Government of Sri Lanka's Health Master Plan Sri Lanka South Asia Health Nutrition Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.