World Bank to Scale-Up Regional Energy Integration in ASEAN Who We Are News PRESS RELEASE June 19, 2025 World Bank to Scale-Up Regional Energy Integration in ASEAN Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Washington DC, June 19, 2025 — The World Bank approved an additional $7.7 million grant from the International Development Association (IDA) for the ASEAN Centre for Energy (ACE) for ASEAN Power Grid projects. This financing is part of the World Bank’s $2.5 billion Accelerating Sustainable Energy Transition Program [ASET] to an initial $5 million grant for ACE approved in September 2024. The additional grant will fund project preparation facility in ACE for the ASEAN power grid under the ASEAN Vision 2020 for operationalization by 2045. “An integrated energy grid will increase reliability, affordability, flexibility, and resilience of power systems and leverage the region’s diverse energy sources, such as wind and solar” said Manuela Ferro, Regional Vice President of East Asia and Pacific Region. This grant aligns with ASET MPA’s objectives of supporting both regional and national efforts to accelerate the scale-up of renewable energy and promote regional power trade within ASEAN. It will support technical studies, including the ASEAN Interconnection Masterplan Study, and will provide transaction structuring support to coalesce diverse group of financiers including development partners and private sector. It will also strengthen the implementation and coordination capacity of ACE to meet the increased demand to facilitate regional power trade among ASEAN member states. PRESS RELEASE NO: 2025/085/EAP Contacts In Washington Geetanjali Chopra gchopra@worldbank.org RELATED World Bank in East Asia and Pacific Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×