Remarks by Axel van Trotsenburg at the Closing Ceremony of the IDA 21 Fifth Replenishment Meeting Who We Are News Speeches & Transcripts December 6, 2024 Remarks by Axel van Trotsenburg at the Closing Ceremony of the IDA 21 Fifth Replenishment Meeting Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina As prepared for delivery. Over the past year, we have navigated an incredibly challenging global landscape —one marked by economic uncertainty, rising debt levels, climate shocks, and an ever-pressing need for human development. Yet, amid these challenges, something remarkable has unfolded —a collective effort, driven by the shared belief that we can do better, that we must do better, for the world’s most vulnerable. Today, we are here to reflect on that effort , to acknowledge the work that brought us to this moment, and to look forward to the impact it will create in the years to come. After months of negotiation, partnership, support from the borrowers and unwavering commitment from our donors, we are proud to announce that the 21st replenishment of IDA has raised almost 24 billion – or $23.7 billion dollars to be more precise –in donor contributions. We enormously appreciate these donor contributions , against a backdrop of fiscal challenges and depreciations. A huge thank you. We acknowledge the efforts of individual donors to mobilize scarce fiscal resources for IDA and their continued commitment to support the countries who need it most. And, thanks to IDA’s unique leveraging model, this $23.7 billion will generate a total of $100 billion in financing— the largest replenishment in IDA’s history. What does this mean? $100 billion allows us to invest in health, education, infrastructure, and climate resilience. Helps stabilize economies, create jobs, and build the foundation for a better future. And will support the 78 countries that need it most, giving them the tools to navigate an uncertain world and unlock their full potential. These investments are about: touching lives and creating better futures, building more resilience in communities affected by climate change and other challenges and strengthening peace in an increasingly fragile world. To achieve this, we work in partnership . This partnership is at the heart of IDA. It is about working with the beneficiary countries, with the people on the ground, and understanding their needs – and how the international community can complement country efforts to create a better future. It is also working with the international community - be it bilateral, be it multilateral – to help countries achieve their national development goals. And therefore, during a replenishment negotiation process, you see international cooperation, multilateralism at work, with a purpose, and with a sharp focus on creating positive change for development. And, as much as we focus on the funds mobilized, there is much more behind the idea of IDA – it is about solidarity, it is about cooperation, and it is about keeping the poor and the vulnerable center stage in all that we do. I want to sincerely thank the donors and also the beneficiary countries for helping shape the package we negotiated over 2024. It is a strong people-centered package It addresses the hardest development challenges at the national level as well as global challenges including climate change It represents the global coalition focused on providing much-needed help to fragile countries as well as those countries that do not get sufficient attention for the challenges they are facing – such as the small and island countries. This package will give us the much-needed capital to make the necessary investments around the world especially in Africa where over 70% of the IDA21 resources will go. This ambition of IDA will be complemented with additional resources from our private sector arms, the International Finance Corporation and MIGA , to further turbo charge private sector development with the ultimate goal of creating jobs. We will implement this package with a lot of determination and ambition. And, with the benefits of our internal reforms, we are in a good position to deliver more efficiently, faster, and with greater impact! The ultimate promise we can make is that you can rely on the staff of the World Bank Group to work day and night, with beneficiary countries and partners, with the sole goal to create the biggest impact possible . Today marks a milestone, but it is also a call to action . Together, we have proven that collective action can achieve extraordinary results. Let us continue to work together—to invest in solutions, to empower nations, and to build a world where every person, no matter where they are born, has the opportunity to thrive. Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×