Updates - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Updates Previous 1 … 9 10 11 … 14 Next Climate Data in Action March 6, 2014 By Ana Pinheiro Privette These post-Superstorm Sandy maps for New York City and New Jersey and New York states show how the floodplain will change under different scenarios of sea level rise. Surging Seas uses government data to project sea level rise scenarios for… Continued NASA and NOAA Launch Coastal Flooding Innovation Challenge March 6, 2014 By Ana Pinheiro Privette Want to solve an innovation challenge to address climate change? The International Space Apps Challenge is an international mass collaboration offering four climate-related challenges, including… Coastal Inundation in Your Community Coastal communities are becoming increasingly vulnerable to the risk of… Continued Energy Infrastructure Tools March 4, 2014 By Data.gov admins Here users will find web-based tools and publicly accessible models to help understand, analyze, and assess vulnerabilities and resilience of the energy sector and critical infrastructure to climate variability, global climate change, and compounding stressors. Tools include interactive mapping applications… Continued Transportation Featured Content February 26, 2014 Over the past five years, there has been a large body of literature developed on climate impacts on transportation and transportation adaptation. This work includes… Continued Water Featured Content February 26, 2014 By Data.gov admins The 2018 National Climate Assessment provides background information to help communities, water utilities, resource managers, and food and energy producers prepare for a changing climate. Given a need to develop resilience… Continued Human Health Featured Content February 26, 2014 The 2018 U.S. National Climate Assessment's chapter on Human Health provides a comprehensive overview of the latest scientific information on the impacts of climate change on public health. Exploring the following resources should provide a greater understanding of human health vulnerability to climate change... Continued Energy Infrastructure Featured Content February 26, 2014 By Data.gov admins Here users will find relevant content from U.S. government agencies that help inform how climate variability and/or global climate change may potentially affect different aspects of energy and infrastructure systems. Energy Resources… Continued Human Health Maps February 26, 2014 The mapping tools and data layers in this section can be used to analyze and assess public health impacts and vulnerabilities associated with climate change. Continued Water Maps February 26, 2014 Here are a few examples of the many maps available on the Internet that illustrate historical conditions and potential climate impacts on water resources… Continued Human Health Tools February 26, 2014 By Data.gov admins A range of tools are available to help analyze and assess the impacts of climate change on public health. These tools provide users with convenient access to data, common data transformation utilities, analysis methods for data and related information, and other functionalities. Continued Previous 1 … 9 10 11 … 14 Next About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov