Readout from World Bank Group President David Malpass’s Meeting with Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal of Ukraine Who We Are News Statement April 12, 2023 Readout from World Bank Group President David Malpass’s Meeting with Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal of Ukraine Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina WASHINGTON, April 12, 2023 – Today, World Bank Group President David Malpass met with Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal of Ukraine. President Malpass and Prime Minister Shmyhal discussed Ukraine’s key economic challenges and financing needs over the medium term. President Malpass noted that Ukraine’s economic outlook remains highly uncertain and is dependent on the duration of the war. President Malpass noted that he was pleased that—with the help of the World Bank’s RDNA update —a consensus was reached on Ukraine’s prioritized financing needs around transport, energy, and housing, which will allow the authorities and Ukraine’s partners to plan a program of support. President Malpass and Prime Minister Shmyhal discussed ways to leverage the findings in the updated RDNA to build consensus with partners and interested parties around a long-term financing strategy, including the role of the private sector and particularly for agriculture. President Malpass also noted that the World Bank Group is pleased to have mobilized significant financing for Ukraine. Since the start of the war, World Bank-mobilized support for Ukraine has reached approximately $23 billion, with more than $20 billion disbursed. President Malpass emphasized that the Bank Group will continue to serve as a platform for convening donors, defining projects, and raising financing for urgent public and private sector needs identified in the RDNA. President Malpass noted that today’s Third Ukraine Ministerial Roundtable presents a critical opportunity to establish a shared understanding on priorities moving forward. President Malpass indicated that the World Bank stands ready to respond to Ukraine’s needs to strengthen debt management, including through the continued provision of technical assistance to strengthen domestic debt market mechanisms. Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×