Jason Pellmar Announced as World Bank Group Country Manager for Bulgaria Who We Are News This page in: English Български This page in: English Български PRESS RELEASE July 1, 2025 Jason Pellmar Announced as World Bank Group Country Manager for Bulgaria Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina SOFIA, July 1, 2025 — Starting today, Jason Pellmar becomes the World Bank Group (WBG) Country Manager for Bulgaria, a position that will unify country-level leadership across the institution to better support the country’s public and private sector priorities. This newly created position provides a single point of contact for access to the full breadth of World Bank Group products and services and will enhance the institutions’ ability to address global challenges, and drive development with speed, efficiency, and impact. “It is a privilege to serve as World Bank Group Country Manager in Bulgaria – a country that has undergone a significant transformation from a highly centralized, planned economy to an open, market-based economy securely anchored in the EU. Now the country’s evolving development opportunities and challenges require mobilization of investments both public and private to deliver on the aspirations of Bulgarians for high EU living standards”, said Jason Pellmar . In Bulgaria, the World Bank Group works to support the government’s efforts to enhance competitiveness and social inclusion, while developing a more sustainable model for economic growth. In September 2024, the World Bank Group announced its new Country Partnership Framework (CPF) with Bulgaria for fiscal years 2025 to 2029, which is designed to ensure strong synergy across the entire World Bank Group to mobilize private sector capital in support of government efforts to address the country’s development challenges like strengthening institutions and boosting productivity, skills, and employability along with increased effectiveness, efficiency, and adequacy of public spending for improved service delivery. A U.S. national, Jason Pellmar most recently served with the World Bank Group’s private sector arm - the International Finance Corporation – as Regional Industry Manager, Infrastructure, for India, Bhutan, and Maldives. Jason brings substantial experience and insight to this position having led efforts to mobilize private sector investment and to advance critical reforms that enabled landmark transactions across multiple industry sectors and in several countries. Prior to joining IFC, Jason underwrote and managed a global portfolio of energy assets at GE Energy Financial Services. The introduction of joint country representation is an important step towards building a stronger World Bank Group. Bulgaria is one of more than 40 World Bank Group offices worldwide transitioning to a single World Bank Group Country Manager or Resident Representative for the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), International Development Association (IDA), the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA). About the World Bank Group: The World Bank Group has a bold vision: to create a world free of poverty on a livable planet. In more than 100 countries, the World Bank Group provides financing, advice, and innovative solutions that improve lives by creating jobs, strengthening economic growth, and confronting the most urgent global development challenges. The World Bank Group is one of the largest sources of funding and knowledge for developing countries. It consists of the World Bank, including the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association (IDA); the International Finance Corporation (IFC); the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA); and the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID). For more information, please visit www.worldbank.org , www.miga.org , and www.ifc.org . PRESS RELEASE NO: 2026/ECA/002 Contacts In Sofia: Ivelina Taushanova +359 889 590099 itaushanova@worldbank.org In Washington: Amy Stilwell +1 202 458 4906 astilwell@worldbankgroup.org In Belgrade: --> In Belgrade: Ivan Miskovic +381 64 2754 852 imiskovic@ifc.org RELATED World Bank In Bulgaria Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×