Morocco: Country Partnership Strategy 2014-2017 --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Morocco: Country Partnership Strategy 2014-2017 September 13, 2013 This page in: English Français العربية Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> The government of Morocco and the World Bank Group have renewed their Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for the period 2014-2017. This strategy defines Morocco’s development priorities and areas of focus for World Bank Group’s support, should it be financial, technical or analytical. The CPS preparation followed broad consultations with public actors, the civil society, the private sector, donors, and other relevant development stakeholders. The new CPS is built around three results areas: Promoting competitive and inclusive growth, Building a green and resilient future and Strengthening governance and institutions for improved service delivery to all citizens. Gender, youth, voice and participation will be the cross-cutting beams for World Bank Group’s engagement in Morocco. Learn more about the new CPS (pdf). RELATED WORLD BANK World Bank Group Announces New Strategy for Morocco and Two New Projects Totaling US$450 Million Proposed Framework (PDF) Country Partnership Strategy: Progress Report Morocco Projects & Programs Morocco Website Morocco Home Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.