Marina Wes: Poland keeps pushing forward --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News OPINION Marina Wes: Poland keeps pushing forward October 30, 2014 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Marina Wes RZECZPOSPOLITA RZECZPOSPOLITA, Interview with Marina Wes, World Bank Country Manager, Poland and the Baltic Countries By Danuta Walewska, October 29, 2014 Rzeczpospolita: Poland ranks quite well in the “Doing Business” (“DB”) report published today. What are the reasons for that? Marina Wes: This is indeed the case. Poland ranks 32 nd in terms of ease of doing business, ahead of other countries in the region – Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary. It is worth noting, that Poland has also ranked higher than a number of EU countries from outside the region. This proves, that the changes are on the right track. If we keep in mind that 189 countries were assessed for the purposes of the ranking, Poland’s result is really good. Rzeczpospolita: Where should we seek reasons for that? Did other countries slow down their business environment reforms, or did Poland accelerate them? Marina Wes : Poland has indeed embarked upon important reforms in three specific areas, however it was similar in previous years. Results we see today come from accumulation effect. Rzeczpospolita: If we compare ease of doing business in Poland and in countries we compete with for investments, what specifically are we better at? Marina Wes: “Doing Business” is not intended for foreign investors, although it is used as a resource containing information about legal regulations. That is why we know that entrepreneurs often use our report as credible source of information. So if a country is doing well in our ranking, it does have an impact on volume of investment. Rzeczpospolita: To what does Poland owe the good ranking? Marina Wes: The team preparing “DB 2015” has noticed three important reforms. First pertained to access to electricity, with lower cost of connection. Second – to registering property: it was made significantly easier, which also led to reduction of notary fees. Third: making export easier thanks to launch of a new terminal in Gdansk. This shows, how meticulously changes in business environment are analyzed using the new report methodology. I would also like to emphasize, that changes in business environment are not a sprint, but a marathon. Poland has been improving business environment conditions for the past five years. You have been implementing important reforms year after year. Two years ago, Poland was even the fastest reformer of business environment globally. Some of the reforms had to settle in before they could translate to investment climate. Rzeczpospolita: What should Poland do to rank better next year? Marina Wes: When we look at individual indicators, it is very clear what needs to be improved in Poland, and urgently, too. To me personally, the most shocking one was the construction permits indicator, where Poland ranked 137 th among 189 countries. However I know, that a new Construction Code is being prepared – at final stages actually – that will fundamentally change the regulation. Another indicator is registering a business. Here, Poland ranks 85 th and simplifying business registration is one of main priorities for Polish authorities. The third indicator is paying taxes. For this one, Poland ranks 87 th , but – unless I’m wrong – new tax ordinance is being prepared. Improvement in those three areas is particularly important for business climate in Poland. It may also further advance the country in the ranking. Rzeczpospolita: We are just about to begin the elections series, though, which is not the best time for reforms. Aren’t you concerned that those necessary – although simple – actions could become significantly more difficult because of politics? Marina Wes: Structural reforms always suffer due to political cycles, although some are more sensitive to politics than others. However, we believe that in your case the reforms are not at risk. I cannot imagine that even during an election campaign anyone could question the benefits of a simplified procedure for business registration, and such a change is expected by the end of this year. Rzeczpospolita: Methodology of preparing the ranking has changed. Do you believe we would have been less successful if previous methodology was still in place? Marina Wes: I have not seen such comparisons. It is however beyond doubt that Poland has implemented important reforms, and it is visible in our ranking, even though “DB” is relative and place in the ranking depends not only on what the given country did, but on what the other countries did as well. Let’s go back to the marathon I mentioned, namely the distance between a country and the business ideal. Here we can see that Poland has improved its position from 73,36 points to 73,56 points. It’s as if a runner completed the marathon in less time than others. We don’t know what Poland’s place in the ranking would be if the old methodology was retained, but one thing is very clear: Poland has accelerated the reforms. And that’s the important thing. RELATED World Bank Group in Poland EXPERT Marina Wes Poland Europe and Central Asia Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.