Shock Waves: Managing the Impacts of Climate Change on Poverty - Background Papers --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Understanding Poverty Topics Climate Change BRIEF Shock Waves: Managing the Impacts of Climate Change on Poverty - Background Papers November 8, 2015 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> The report “Shock Waves: Managing the Impacts of Climate Change on Poverty” commissioned 14 background papers in collaboration with research institutions across the globe to provide the report with innovative analyses to provide insights on the relationship between climate change and poverty. These papers examined the impacts of climate change on poverty, through agriculture, ecosystems, natural disasters, and health, as well as strategies to reduce these impacts. While we cannot do justice to each paper through the report itself, this page provides full access to the papers commissioned so interested readers can delve into the full details behind each analysis. Download and read the background papers: 1) The impacts of climate change on poverty in 2030, and the potential from rapid, inclusive and climate-smart development Authors: Julie Rozenberg ( jrozenberg@worldbank.org ) and Stephane Hallegatte 2) Climate change impacts and mitigation in the developing world: An integrated assessment of the agriculture and forestry sectors Authors: Petr Havlík ( havlikpt@iiasa.ac.at ), Hugo Valin, Mykola Gusti, Erwin Schmid, David Leclère, Nicklas Forsell, Mario Herrero, Nikolay Khabarov, Aline Mosnier, Matthew Cantele, and Michael Obersteiner 3) The impact of climate change on costs of food and people exposed to hunger at subnational scale Authors: Anne Biewald ( biewald@pik-potsdam.de ), Hermann Lotze-Campen, Ilona Otto, Nils Brinckmann, Benjamin Bodirsky, Isabelle Weindl, Alexander Popp, and Hans Joachim Schellnhuber 4) Climate change impacts on rural poverty in low-elevation coastal zones Author: Edward B. Barbier ( EBarbier@uwyo.edu ) 5) Responses to weather and climate: A cross-section analysis of rural incomes Authors: Frederik Noack ( frederik.noack@gmx.de ), Sven Wunder, Arild Angelsen, and Jan Börner 6) Environmental reliance, climate exposure and vulnerability: a cross-section analysis of structural and stochastic poverty Authors: Arild Angelsen ( arild.angelsen@nmbu.no ) and Therese Dokken 7) Disaster risk, climate change, and poverty: assessing the global exposure of poor people to floods and droughts Authors: Hessel Winsemius (Hessel.Winsemius@deltares.nl), Brenden Jongman, Ted Veldkamp, Stephane Hallegatte, Mook Bangalore, and Philip J. Ward 8) The Exposure, Vulnerability and Ability to Respond of Poor Households to Recurrent Floods in Mumbai Author: Archana Patankar ( archana.patankar09@gmail.com ) 9) Households and Heat Stress: Estimating the Distributional Consequences of Climate Change Authors: Jisung Park ( jisungpark@fas.harvard.edu ), Stephane Hallegatte, Mook Bangalore, and Evan Sandhoefner 10) Social Protection and Disaster Risk Management in the Philippines: The Case of Typhoon Yolanda (Haiyan) Author: Thomas Bowen ( tbowen@worldbank.org ) 11) Social Protection in the Face of Climate Change: Targeting Principles and Financing Mechanisms Authors: Michael R. Carter ( mrcarter@primal.ucdavis.edu ) and Sarah A. Janzen 12) Climate constraints on the carbon intensity of economic growth Authors: Julie Rozenberg ( jrozenberg@worldbank.org ), Steven J Davis, Ulf Narloch and Stephane Hallegatte 13) The Role of Inequality in Climate-Poverty Debates Author: Petra Tschakert ( petra@psu.edu ) 14) Ethiopia’s Food Security Program: Social protection, disaster risk management and climate change adaptation Authors: Kelly Johnson ( kjohnson2@worldbank.org ) and Thomas Bowen Last Updated: May 18, 2016 RELATED Report and Policy Notes : Shock Waves: Managing the Impacts of Climate Change on Poverty Infographic : Managing the Impacts of Climate Change on Poverty Press release : Immediate Push on Climate-Smart Development Can Keep More than 100 Million People Out of Poverty Climate Change --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.