Water Column Sonar Data Collection - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Back to updates Water Column Sonar Data Collection By Data.gov admins · June 09, 2014 NOAA collects and uses active acoustic (or sonar) data for a variety of mapping requirements. As the national archive for multibeam bathymetric data, NGDC manages over 15 million nautical miles of ship trackline data from sources worldwide. In 2011, NGDC, in partnership with NOAA’s National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), initiated a new archive for high resolution data collected with sonars capable of mapping the water column. Water column sonar data are collected on NOAA fishery survey vessels and academic and international fleets, and are used to assess the physical and biological characteristics of the ocean. Primary uses include 3-D mapping of fish schools and other mid-water marine organisms, assessing biological abundance, species identification, and habitat characterization. These data are also useful for evaluating underwater gas seeps, remotely monitoring undersea oil spills, and bathymetry. NGDC is working with scientists at NMFS and the Joint Hydrographic Center to ensure the long-term preservation and world-wide dissemination of these data. About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov