Nathalie Francken Home Who We Are Experts Nathalie Francken Nathalie Francken Executive Director: EDS10, Executive Directors, EDS Nathalie Francken The World Bank Group 1818 H Street NW Washington, D.C. 20433 USA Mail Stop MC 12-1213 Tel : +1-202-473-1000 eds10@worldbank.org worldbank.org/eds10 +1-202-522-3453 Nathalie Francken, a Belgian national, is the World Bank Group Executive Director since November 2024. Prior to this role, she served as the Alternate Executive Director for MIGA representing the constituency of Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Hungary, Kosovo, Luxembourg, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, and Turkey (EDS10). She has been Member of the WBG Board since 2018. Prior to joining the WBG, Ms. Francken served as Advisor on Agriculture and Food Security at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Trade and Development Cooperation of Belgium, Research Manager at the Centre for Institutions and Economic Performance (LICOS) at the Catholic University of Leuven, Associate Researcher at the Centre for European Policy Studies (CEPS) in Brussels, and Chair of the Board of Directors of the Belgian Development Agency, Enabel. Ms. Francken has field experience from various developing countries and worked for the Cornell University Food and Nutrition Policy Program, the Government of Madagascar, UNICEF, FAO and the World Bank. She was also a Young Professional/Economist at the African Development Bank. Ms. Francken conducted research on development economics and political economy, more specifically on public finance, service delivery, food and nutrition security and the social implications of the natural resource curse. She published in several peer-reviewed international journals. She is also the main author of the strategic policy note on ‘Agriculture and Food Security’ for the Belgian Development Cooperation. Ms. Francken earned a Ph.D. in Economics, an M.Sc. in Economics, and a Master of Agricultural Engineering at the Catholic University of Leuven in Belgium. MORE FROM Nathalie Francken Publications Projects Blog posts