Event | 2025 Global Parliamentary Forum Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events 2025 Global Parliamentary Forum Share OVERVIEW The Global Parliamentary Forum (GPF) is the World Bank Group’s flagship parliamentary event, co-organized with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the Parliamentary Network on the World Bank and IMF (PN) during the Spring Meetings. It gathered 130 participants, including around 100 lawmakers from 40 countries, alongside senior leadership from the World Bank Group (WBG) and IMF to exchange knowledge and best practices in development. Discussions spanned legislative collaboration, country experiences, and global cooperation for local development. The cornerstone of the GPF was the townhall with World Bank Group President Ajay Banga and IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva. While fireside chats with WBG Senior Managing Director, Axel van Trotsenburg, and IFC Managing Director, Makhtar Diop, explored how parliamentarians can increase their collaboration with the WBG, IMF, and other development partners to reinforce multilateral approaches for long-term global economic resilience, stability, sustainable growth, and job creation. The third day of the Forum featured the sixth convening of the Global Young MP Initiative, titled “ Delivering Results for Future Generations.” The meeting provided legislators under age 45 with an opportunity to dialogue directly with WBG leadership as well as their global peers on how to deliver impact in the current and unfolding development context. It included discussions on how young legislators can work hand-in-hand with the WBG to prepare for the challenges of tomorrow, with a deep dive into the role of youth in addressing fragility, conflict and violence. Consult the program and watch the replays here Event Details Date: April 21 - 23, 2025 ET Location: Washington, DC Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×