Learning and School Reforms Continue in Ukraine Despite War Challenges Who We Are News This page in: English Українська This page in: English Українська FEATURE STORY March 25, 2025 Learning and School Reforms Continue in Ukraine Despite War Challenges Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Story Highlights Russia’s invasion has damaged or destroyed thousands of educational institutions in Ukraine, estimated at $13.4 billion in damages and disrupting learning across the country. The World Bank’s LEARN project is helping improve school safety conditions, providing free transportation for vulnerable students, training teachers, and purchasing textbooks. LEARN is also supporting Ukraine’s efforts to advance the New Ukrainian School reform, helping align the country’s education system with EU standards. 13-year-old Uliana is completing geometry homework before catching the afternoon school bus to Lyceum #1, which was running late due to an air raid siren. Uliana lives with her mother, younger brother and a cat in a rented house in Hostomel while her stepfather fights on the frontline. The family fled their home in Zaporizhzhia due to missile attacks and moved to Hostomel, a city east of Kyiv, which itself was recovering from Russia’s occupation in the early days of the war. "After a long period of online learning, the opportunity to study with peers and new teachers and attend school in person helped Uliana adapt here," says her mother, Yevheniia. Hostomel Lyceum #1 has 1,800 students, including 150 displaced children like Uliana and another 700 children directly affected by the war. The school operates in two shifts to accommodate all students. "Our lyceum has many children who survived occupation, whose homes were destroyed, or who relocated from occupied regions. They experience anxiety and fear air raid alerts," says Nataliia Pryshchepa, Uliana’s math teacher. "They need support from friends, classmates, and teachers. Creating a safe environment is crucial." The neighborhood was shelled during the occupation. While surrounding houses still bear bullet holes and shell fragments, the school was renovated with help from donors and the community, and a bomb shelter was built. Students returned to in-person learning in fall 2022, though air raid sirens still regularly interrupt classes. "When an air raid alert goes off during a lesson, we go down to the shelter," says Pryshchepa. "Each class has its allocated space there, and we continue the educational process in a safe place.” Across Ukraine, 3,373 educational institutions have been damaged, including 385 destroyed, accounting for more than 10 percent of the education infrastructure at a cost of $13.4 billion, according to the latest Rapid Damage and Needs Assessment (RDNA4) . As of December 2024, 741,000 children were studying in a hybrid format, combining in-person and remote learning because their schools lack bomb shelters, while another 443,000 were learning entirely online in areas under active hostilities. Pryshchepa recalls the challenges of resuming education when the school reopened. "During the occupation, children missed a significant amount of learning. When people evacuated, they left textbooks and devices behind so there wasn't even an opportunity to conduct online lessons," says Pryshchepa. "When we returned to teaching, it was extremely challenging to catch up on the material students had missed." The impact of war on education was immediate. Just eight months into the war, Ukrainian students already had showed a decline in learning comparable to two years of missed school, according to a Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) survey conducted in October 2022. Learning losses have only increased since then. In-person learning continues with the help of LEARN In-person learning in Ukraine continues despite challenges, thanks to the determination of the government and financial support from international donors, delivered through the World Bank. This also helps the Ministry of Education and Science attract technical assistance, global experience, and knowledge. The Lifting Education Access and Resilience in Times of Need (LEARN) program is addressing the immediate impact of the war - improving school safety conditions, providing free transportation for vulnerable students, training teachers, and purchasing textbooks. All this effort is part of the country’s ongoing modernization reform, known as the “New Ukrainian School”. One significant achievement has been providing new textbooks to 400,000 students nationwide. All textbooks we received are new, printed in 2024. These textbooks are engaging, with many real-life applications—calculating the area of a football field or a roof of a house. Mathematics now includes many practical tasks, making learning much more interesting. Nataliia Pryshchepa Teacher Overall School Reform Underway – New Ukrainian School The government has continued the New Ukrainian School (NUS) reform started in 2017 to modernize education in grades 1-12 and align it to EU standards, despite ongoing hostilities. The reform emphasizes a curriculum focused on 21 st century skills, continuous professional development for teachers, and modernized education management. Iryna Tkachenko, Deputy Director for Educational Work at the Lyceum explains the reform's philosophy which is centered on helping students develop critical skills for today’s world. “NUS isn't just about transferring knowledge It focuses on practical application of knowledge," says Tkachenko. “The child is at the center, with emphasis on ensuring mental, physical, and psychological well-being.” "First and foremost, it's critical thinking,” she adds . “Children with critical thinking can analyze information, which helps them understand what's happening around them." Alignment with EU standards is another important component of NUS. “The integration of European standards helps to create an educational environment where children not only gain knowledge but also learn to be active citizens of their country and Europe,” explains Tkachenko. The NUS reform has transformed teaching methods and teachers are adapting to the interdisciplinary approach. " In the old system, lessons were rigid ," Pryshchepa explains. " With NUS reform, not only students learn differently—teachers do too. When teaching scale in mathematics, I need to know some geography because we calculate distances on maps ." "Children are more active and communicate more because they work in groups or pairs during lessons. Their critical thinking is more developed because they independently explore topics rather than just receiving explanations from teachers," she adds. Fostering human capital Through the LEARN program's support for NUS implementation, Ukraine continues to invest in its future. LEARN is expected to reach one million students, teachers and school staff by the end of 2025. Implemented by the Ministry of Education and Science, initial financing for the LEARN program includes $235 million from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) Advancing Needed Credit Enhancement for Ukraine (ADVANCE Ukraine), $150 million from the Special Program for Ukraine and Moldova Recovery, and $30 million from the Ukraine Relief, Recovery, Reconstruction and Reform Trust Fund (URTF). The program can be scaled-up as additional funds become available. Strengthening education will lay foundations to support Ukraine’s long road to social and economic recovery. Today’s school-age children are the human capital Ukraine will need to rebuild and put its economy on a sustainable path to prosperity. RELATED Strengthening Ukraine’s Primary and Secondary Education through World Bank Support Ukraine Relief, Recovery, Reconstruction and Reform Trust Fund (URTF) The World Bank in Ukraine Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×