Effects of COVID-19 on Croatian Women Where We Work Croatia publication publication March 9, 2021 Effects of COVID-19 on Croatian Women Email Print Tweet Share Share LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> This World Bank report provides a preliminary assessment of the impacts on women caused by the pandemic. It finds that the pandemic has worsened existing gender gaps and made life harder for women in Croatia. This is especially heightened for women from vulnerable social groups, including lower-skilled, rural women, inactive women and elderly women. Croatian Women and the COVID-19 Pandemic DOWNLOAD PDF The report identifies three key reasons the pandemic has impacted women differently. Frontline jobs. Women are more likely to have jobs in sectors that were hardest hit by the pandemic and could not be done remotely, the hospitality and services sectors. Women are also over-represented in low-skilled, informal and part-time work, or in ‘invisible’ jobs such as unpaid care work or agricultural work for family businesses. As a result, women were more likely to experience income loss and found it financially more difficult to endure the pandemic-induced lockdown. Selective access to social protection. Women who stay at home, work the land, or help in the family business are often ‘invisible’ and not covered by the social protection system. These ‘invisible’ women lack access to health insurance, sick leave, unemployment insurance, or a pension. Women were also less likely to be covered by the COVID-19 relief packages targeted at working adults. Increased domestic burden. Women traditionally carry out caregiving roles and have faced an increased burden in the wake of school closures. Less-educated women were most strongly affected by the unequal division of domestic chores within families. Less-educated women, thus, face a set of mutually-reinforcing challenges: they are more likely to have lost jobs or income due to the pandemic, they are less likely to be covered by social protection or the COVID emergency measures and they shoulder the lion’s share of unpaid family work, which creates a real barrier to finding new work opportunities. MULTIMEDIA VIDEO Mar 09, 2021 Croatian Women and the COVID-19 Pandemic: Women are overrepresented in frontline jobs The COVID-19 pandemic is not gender blind. Women have been more distressed by its effects than men. On top of that, some women were more affected than other. Which group of women is the most vulnerable? VIDEO Mar 12, 2021 Selective access to social protection for Croatian women A large number of women who stay at home, work the land, or help in family businesses are often not covered by the social protection system. What happens to these “invisible women” when a health crisis emerges? VIDEO May 05, 2021 Increased women’s domestic burden during the pandemic So many roles, and so little time. A housekeeper, a cook, a teacher, a wife, a mother, an employee. The pandemic has put unprecedented demands on women. How many hats can one woman wear? VIDEO May 05, 2021 Negative effects of the pandemic on women’s mental health During the pandemic women have become jugglers, trying to keep a number of existential balls in the air. This endless juggling has increased their stress and affected their mental health. VIDEO May 05, 2021 Traditional gender norms and unequal impacts of the COVID-19 crisis As if set in stone, women are seen as caretakers and homemakers and men as breadwinners. But what happens when both are employed and a crisis hits? You’d be surprised with the women’s take on this. VIDEO May 05, 2021 Gender equality is the key to a resilient economic recovery from the pandemic It is challenging to achieve gender equality, but this is not only the right thing to do - it is also smart economics. Unlocking the economic potential of Croatian women can boost productivity and accelerate the country’s growth. Four priority actions are needed to push this along. Read Report on ISSUU Arrow The pandemic has also resulted in an increase in domestic violence, both in terms of severity and frequency. And, due to the lockdown, women have found it more difficult to report incidents of domestic violence and to receive support. The report makes the case that a post-pandemic economic recovery in Croatia provides an important opportunity to address structural gender gaps in a systematic manner . In doing so, the country will benefit from unlocking the economic potential of Croatian women which will boost productivity and the national economy. For an inclusive and sustainable economic recovery, the policy emphasis should be on four priorities: Providing active labor market services to the most vulnerable women and youth who are furthest from the labor market, Removing barriers to women’s employability, Improving entrepreneurial opportunities for youth/female self-employment and support to women and youth to start or re-start their businesses or business collectives; and Preventing gender-based violence and strengthening support services for survivors of domestic violence. Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->