Event | Strengthening African Wildlife and Fisheries Conservation Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Strengthening African Wildlife and Fisheries Conservation Share Presentation (PDF) OVERVIEW SPEAKERS POLICY RESEARCH TALKS RELATED Wild animals, plants, and other living organisms make Earth habitable, and their existence holds intrinsic value. Sub-Saharan Africa is the most important region for biodiversity conservation because more wildlife populations and landscapes remain intact there than anywhere else. In this Policy Research Talk, Gabriel Englander will present insights on current and emerging trends in African conservation policies: The impacts of transferring management of protected areas from governments to private non-governmental organizations on wildlife and tourism. The potential economic and ecological benefits from regional cooperation in negotiating international fishing rights within African waters. The African countries that successfully deter industrial vessels from their coastal fishing grounds, and the benefits for these countries' small-scale artisanal fishers, fish populations, and micronutrient supply. Drawing on causal inference analyses of new biodiversity panel datasets, Englander will challenge pessimism regarding African conservation effectiveness while also identifying opportunities for improvements. Event Details Date: June 4, 2024 Time: 1:00 - 2:30PM ET Location: Room MC 2-800 (World Bank HQ, Washington, DC) Contact: Michelle Chester mchester@worldbank.org SPEAKER Gabriel Englander Economist, Development Research Group Gabriel is an Economist in the Sustainability and Infrastructure team of the World Bank's Development Research Group. He studies marine fisheries and wildlife conservation. Prior to joining the World Bank in 2022 he was a postdoctoral scholar in the Environmental Markets Lab at the University of California, Santa Barbara. In 2021 he received his PhD in Agricultural and Resource Economics from the University of California, Berkeley Learn More DISCUSSANT Charlotte De Fontaubert Senior Fisheries Specialist, World Bank Dr. Charlotte de Fontaubert coordinates the Bank’s fisheries and blue economy work in Southeastern African. Before she took on this role, she was the Global Lead for the Blue Economy, where she helped design the Bank’s Blue Economy approach and was Program Manager for the first four years of PROBLUE, a Multi-Donor Trust Fund launched in 2018. As Senior Fisheries Specialist, she has co-authored some of the Bank’s seminal publications on fisheries and the blue economy, including The Sunken Billions Revisited, the fisheries chapter in the Bank’s flagship report on environmentally destructive subsidies – Detox Development, a report on fisheries and climate change and fisheries in Africa, and “Riding the Blue Wave,” a multi-GP report that identified systematic ways to apply a Blue Economy approach to World Bank operations. Dr. de Fontaubert holds an M.Sc. in Sea-Use Law, Economics and Policy from the London School of Economics and a Ph.D. in Marine Studies from the University of Delaware. Learn More Elisson Wright Senior Environmental Finance Specialist, World Bank Elisson Wright is a Senior Environmental Finance Specialist in the East Africa Environment Department with over 20 years of public and private sector experience leading strategic environmental and finance initiatives. He joined the Bank’s Environment Unit in 2004 as a Junior Professional Associate, then from 2006–2015 worked in the private sector. He currently co-leads the Wildlife Conservation Bond (WCB) operation in South Africa and a similar pipeline project in Rwanda. He also co-leads sustainable landscape management and nature-based tourism projects in Zambia and regional efforts to mobilize finance at scale for nature and climate action. He started his career in the finance sector at JP Morgan Chase. Elisson holds an MBA, MS, and Finance degrees from the University of Maryland, where he also completed the Life Sciences Scholars Program. Learn More CHAIR Deon Filmer Director, Development Research Group Deon Filmer is Director of the Development Research Group at the World Bank. He has previously served as Acting Research Manager in the Research Group, Co-Director of the World Development Report 2018: Learning to Realize Education’s Promise, and Lead Economist in the Human Development department of the Africa Region of the World Bank. He works on issues of human capital and skills, service delivery, and the impact of policies and programs to improve human development outcomes—with research spanning the areas of education, health, social protection, and poverty and inequality. He has published widely in refereed journals, including studies of the impact of demand-side programs on schooling and learning; the roles of poverty, gender, orphanhood, and disability in explaining education inequalities; and the determinants of effective service delivery. Learn More The monthly Policy Research Talks showcase the latest findings of the World Bank’s research department, challenge and contribute to the institution’s intellectual climate, and re-examine conventional wisdom in current development theories and practice. These talks facilitate a dialogue between researchers and operational staff and inform World Bank operations both globally and within partner countries. Read More » Development Research Group Policy Research Talks Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×