Kyrgyz Republic to Enhance Education Quality with Additional Financing from the World Bank Who We Are News This page in: English Русский This page in: English Русский PRESS RELEASE June 26, 2025 Kyrgyz Republic to Enhance Education Quality with Additional Financing from the World Bank Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina BISHKEK, June 26, 2025 – The World Bank approved additional financing of $6.36 million to complement the ongoing Learning for the Future Project in the Kyrgyz Republic. This initiative, originally launched with $50 million in 2020, seeks to enhance school readiness and teacher productivity from pre-school to secondary education in targeted communities. The additional funding will expand the scope of the project to include full-day childcare in preschool, thus improving access to quality early education, while helping boost economic opportunities for women, particularly young mothers and caregivers. "The new financing will support the Kyrgyz Republic in expanding much-needed full-day childcare services to meet growing demand," said Hugh Riddell , World Bank Group Country Manager. "It will give women, especially young mothers, the opportunity to re-enter the workforce or start new careers. Specialized training will be offered to help women manage and operate childcare centers, thus generating new job opportunities – particularly in rural areas and among low-income households." Planned activities under the additional financing include renovating and repurposing underutilized public facilities nationwide, focusing on underserved rural and low-income communities. These spaces will be transformed into safe, climate-resilient, child-friendly environments that meet modern energy efficiency standards. The project will also upgrade sleeping, play, and learning areas in public kindergartens to improve both quality and accessibility. Additionally, it will pilot family-based and other alternative childcare models, offering flexible, affordable care for children aged one to six. These models aim to reduce costs while providing personalized learning and expanding early education access. “The expansion of preschool services, especially full-day childcare, is vital for increasing school readiness and ensuring better educational outcomes,” noted Gulmira Sultanova , World Bank’s Senior Education Specialist and Co-Task Team Leader of the Project. “These investments reflect the Kyrgyz Republic’s goal to ensure that every child, regardless of where they live, starts school with the skills, care, and support needed to thrive.” The additional financing is provided through two sources: a $4.36 million zero-interest credit from the International Development Association (IDA), the World Bank’s concessional lending arm, with repayments spread out over 50 years, and a $2 million grant, which requires no repayment, from the Early Learning Partnership (ELP), a World Bank-managed multi-donor trust fund that invests in early learning opportunities and outcomes worldwide. The project will be implemented by 2028 and will adhere to strict international standards including procurement and financial management regulations and anti-corruption guidelines. The World Bank Group’s overall mission is to end extreme poverty and promote shared prosperity on a livable planet. The Bank’s program in the Kyrgyz Republic currently consists of 25 projects supporting the modernization and development of various sectors, with commitments of $1.4 billion. PRESS RELEASE NO: 2025/ECA/111 Contacts In Bishkek Jyldyz Djakypova jdjakypova@worldbank.org RELATED The World Bank in the Kyrgyz Republic Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×