Priority Themes Global Water Security & Sanitation Partnership (GWSP) Global Water Security and Sanitation Partnership (GWSP): A platform for knowledge, action, and collaboration. Home About Us Highlights Where We Work Initiatives Publications Partners Annual Report From water resilience to innovative solutions, discover how we are helping transform lives around the world! Highlights Building a Water-Secure Future in the Middle East and North Africa. Across the region, every drop counts. In response to a widespread and worsening water crisis, countries in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) are taking strong steps to ensure a water-secure future for their citizens. Explore experiences in Morocco, Egypt, and Jordan. Resilient Lands, Thriving Futures. Communities Leading the Fight Against Land Degradation and Drought. For communities across the globe, healthy land, thriving ecosystems, and secure water resources are the cornerstone of resilience – underpinning food production, jobs, and economic growth. Yet, widespread land degradation and drought are threatening this resilience. From Burkina Faso to Brazil, and from Ethiopia to Jordan, governments and communities are charting a course toward a resilient future. Transforming Lives Through Climate-Resilient Irrigation. Game Changers for a Livable Planet. About 500 million smallholder farmers worldwide feed 80 percent of people in low-income countries. Despite the challenges they face, farmers around the world are innovating and finding new ways to provide for their families and communities. More —and better managed— climate-resilient irrigation will help feed the planet with available water, strengthen livelihoods, grow economies and create jobs, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and build resilience to climate shocks. It’s a game changer. Water Security Diagnostic The Water Security Diagnostic Framework provides a systematic approach and common language to examine and discuss water security across the World Bank’s projects. In addition, it provides guidance on how to consider water issues within a broader context of national (or regional) macroeconomic trends and development objectives, such as the SDGs. Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->