Event | The Central Asia Water and Sewerage Services Conference Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events The Central Asia Water and Sewerage Services Conference Share Overview Agenda Speakers Conference Objectives Access to water supply and sanitation (WSS) remains a challenge in Central Asia. Despite reported coverage of over 90% in the last two decades, outdated infrastructure, poor maintenance, and limited utility capacity are undermining service quality and sustainability. This has led to declining customer satisfaction and weak financial and operational performance, creating a cycle of substandard services. The situation is further aggravated by climate change and rising demand, which reduce water availability across much of the region. Most WSS utilities in Central Asia are implementing investment programs and reforms to address underinvestment, improve operational and financial performance, and expand access in underserved areas. Some initiatives have already delivered tangible results in access to WSS services and institutional efficiency, with tested models and approaches offering lessons for neighboring countries. Uzsuvtaminot Joint Stock Company of Uzbekistan—in partnership with the World Bank, the Government of Switzerland, and other development partners—will host the first Central Asia Utilities Conference, with the theme: “Harnessing Digital Solutions to Enhance the Efficiency, Quality, and Sustainability of Water Supply and Sewerage Services.” This event seeks to promote learning and knowledge exchange among Central Asian WSS utilities on developing innovative solutions to strengthen WSS infrastructure, services, and institutions. It will convene local and international water sector experts and include strategic and technical sessions on investment planning and implementation, operational efficiency, digital solutions, financial management, customer service, and institutional models. Conference Format The three-day event will take place in Tashkent, Uzbekistan, from October 6 to 8, 2025 , bringing together around 250 participants. The conference will open with a half-day plenary session, followed by two days of parallel sessions and field visits to WSS facilities. The agenda will also feature an exhibition of WSS technologies and services by national, regional, and international firms active in the sector. In addition, there will be networking and collaborative sessions for water utilities associations, young water professionals, a country platform for private sector engagement, and market outreach for large infrastructure projects. Registration All eligible participants are invited to register HERE . Preliminary Agenda Time Description Day 1: Monday, October 6 th Session 1 Opening Session (Plenary Session) Welcoming Speeches Keynote Address: Achieving Universal Access to Water Supply and Sanitation – What It Takes for Central Asian Utilities Session 2 Water Supply and Sanitation in the Digital Era (Plenary Session) Block 1 Improving the Operational Efficiency of Water Supply and Sewerage Services Block 2 Enhancing Asset Management and Exploring Digital Solutions for Water Supply and Sanitation DAY 2: Tuesday, October 7 th Block 3 Institutional Transformation, Skills and Systems Block 4 Achieving universal access and Financial Sustainability Block 5 Innovative WSS Financing and Private Sector Engagement Block 6 Connecting and Collaborating – Establishing the Water Partnerships DAY 3: Wednesday, October 8 th Block 7 On-site visits to water supply and sewerage facilities Block 8 Visit to the exhibition “Aquatherm - Tashkent 2025 (UzExpoCenter) Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×