Do African Children Have an Equal Chance? --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Understanding Poverty Topics Poverty publication Do African Children Have an Equal Chance? Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Do African Children Have an Equal Chance? Key Messages: Access to basic goods and services is influenced by a child’s social and economic circumstances. Early access to health services, education, safe water and other goods and services can maximize a child’s opportunities as an adult. To improve opportunities in Africa, governments should develop policies to ensure that basic services cover more people, especially the poor and disadvantaged. In Africa, 1/3 of one-year-old children are not vaccinated for measles, 25% of primary school-aged children are out of school, and 25% of children don’t have safe drinking water. These statistics are more than just indicators of the general well-being of children. Early access to basic goods and services, which is often influenced by a child’s social and economic circumstances, can shape opportunities and quality of life in adulthood. Access to primary education, basic health services, safe drinking water, electricity and adequate nutrition at a young age are particularly critical for allowing a child to attain his or her full potential. This report explores changing opportunities for children in Africa and makes policy recommendations for building human capital and improving opportunities through equal access to education and health care. The report finds that some countries have made progress in improving access to education and nutrition. For example Ethiopia, Mali, and Madagascar have improved access to all education opportunities. Meanwhile, Ghana, Mali and Zambia rate high in school attendance of children ages 6-11. Tanzania and Namibia rate the highest for school test scores and for completion of primary school compared to other countries. Mozambique has significantly improved access to immunization and Nigeria has the highest rates for access to nutrition. Read the full report Home Education Health Poverty Resources: Report Blog: Are Opportunities Expanding for Children in Africa? Blog: De Meilleures Chances pour les Enfants d’Afrique? Video: Why Does Equality of Opportunity Matter? Visualize Inequality Website Video: The Data Minute: What is Inequality of Opportunity? --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.