Jamaica: In the Face of Development Challenges, “You are Not Alone,” Says Regional VP --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Jamaica: In the Face of Development Challenges, “You are Not Alone,” Says Regional VP November 30, 2010 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> KINGSTON, Jamaica, November 30, 2010 .- “ My message today is that Jamaica and you are not alone in the world—many of the development issues you face are common to many countries in the region—and in the world ,” said Pamela Cox, World Bank Vice President for Latin America and the Caribbean , during a recent presentation at the University of West Indies (UWI), Mona. Cox’s comments were part of a dialogue with students and staff on Jamaica’s development challenges, barriers to growth in the country and the work of the World Bank in middle-income countries. She provided a regional perspective, highlighting the fact that a number of Latin American countries have successfully weathered the economic recession as they had implemented sound macroeconomic fiscal and financial policies, which built their capacity to withstand the impact of the crisis. “ Listening and talking to you about your development challenges, I feel like I could be in any other country within the Latin America and Caribbean region, and even beyond. Your problems and aspirations are similar to those of other countries ,” Cox affirmed. During her recent visit to Jamaica, the regional vice president also met with a wide range of stakeholders in Jamaica - from Prime Minister Bruce Golding, to inner-city residents in the parish of St. Catherine involved in community-level activities supported by Bank funding. A highlight of Cox’s visit was a tour of projects and meetings with beneficiaries under a Jamaica Social Investment Fund (JSIF) initiative, funded by the World Bank, in Central Village, St. Catherine where she was able to get a firsthand look at the results of Bank funding to a Jamaican community. She had dialogue with representatives from a newly-established Community Benevolent Society and met with community women who have organized themselves to improve the community. The regional vice president also engaged in a lively discussion with young men who have started a farming venture in the heart of their inner-city surroundings. She visited the farm site and there, she shared thoughts with the members of the Andrew’s Lane young farmers group about youth in other countries who have overcome social and economic challenges through their own entrepreneurial efforts. In Central Village, Cox visited an early childhood school, which was refurbished with JSIF support and a multi-purpose community centre which is under construction in Central Village. RELATED WORLD BANK Jamaica - Country partnership strategy for the period 2010-2013 (English) EXTERNAL Jamaica Social Investment Fund Jamaica The Caribbean: Development news, research, data | World Bank Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.