Amazonian Countries Launch Regional Connectivity Alliance at COP30 with IDB Group, World Bank Group Support Who We Are News This page in: English Português Español This page in: English Português Español PRESS RELEASE November 11, 2025 Amazonian Countries Launch Regional Connectivity Alliance at COP30 with IDB Group, World Bank Group Support Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina BELÉM, Brazil, NOVEMBER 11, 2025 — At COP30, countries of the Amazon region launched the Alliance for Sustainable, Resilient, and Integrated Transport in the Amazon , an initiative supported by the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group) and the World Bank Group to strengthen regional connectivity. The launch event took place at the IDB Group Pavilion in Belém, where transportation ministers from Amazonian countries and senior representatives of the IDB Group and the World Bank Group signed a declaration to drive deep transformation of transportation in the region under an inclusive, efficient, and resilient approach , in partnership with other stakeholders from the public and private sectors. The Alliance aims to develop a Regional Action Plan 2026-2030, to serve as a roadmap for promoting connectivity and improving the efficiency of transportation systems in the region. This initiative aligns with the sustainable infrastructure pillar of the IDB Group’s Amazonia Forever program and the connectivity pillar of the South Connection program, as well as with the “livable Amazonia” pillar of the World Bank Group’s Amazonia Viva initiative. During the launch, participants emphasized the urgency of strengthening connectivity and reducing gaps in access to basic services in the Amazon region, where infrastructure limitations, dependence on fossil fuels, and vulnerability to disasters hinder development and regional integration. The Alliance is based on four strategic pillars : Improving connectivity and access to basic services in isolated communities Promoting efficient, multimodal logistics to boost the regional bioeconomy Developing resilient infrastructure with nature-based solutions Strengthening river transport as a key axis for integration and mobility Through this joint effort, Amazonian countries and their partners seek to advance toward a transportation model that connects communities, increases the efficiency of services, and reinforces the region’s resilience to challenges associated with climate change. The IDB Group at COP30 The IDB Group is hosting more than 80 events at COP30 to showcase solutions for closing gaps in financing for resilient development through partnerships, innovation, and a focus on measurable impact in Latin America and the Caribbean. Journalists on site are invited to visit our venues, with no registration required: IDB Group Pavilion in the Blue Zone, IDB Group Pavilion in the Green Zone, and the AMAZÔNIA SEMPRE Station at the Goeldi Museum. Follow our COP30 page for all news and event schedules. The IDB Group is acting as a bridge at the conference – connecting governments and investors, the public and private sectors, people and communities – to mobilize at least $6 billion in announcements to help close gaps in financing and support national priorities. About Amazonia Forever is a regional coordination program that aims to protect biodiversity and accelerate sustainable development in three lines of action: expanding innovative financing, boosting knowledge exchange, and facilitating regional coordination among the eight countries that Amazonia spans. During COP30, it is hosting the AMAZÔNIA SEMPRE Station at the Goeldi Museum (November 8-21). Full program: www.bit.ly/COP30AMAZONIASEMPREpt . About the IDB Group The Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group) is the leading source of financing and knowledge for improving lives in Latin America and the Caribbean. It comprises the IDB , which works with the region’s public sector and enables the private sector; IDB Invest , which directly supports private companies and projects; and IDB Lab , which spurs entrepreneurial innovation. About the World Bank Group The World Bank Group works to create a world free of poverty on a livable planet through a combination of financing, knowledge, and expertise. It includes the World Bank (International Bank for Reconstruction and Development - IBRD and International Development Association - IDA ); the International Finance Corporation (IFC) ; the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) ; and the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) . About Amazonia Viva Amazonia Viva is the World Bank Group initiative to strengthen efforts and collaboration to safeguard natural assets for a healthy forest biome, foster nature-smart and inclusive economic opportunities, and improve living standards of its population. As a part of the World Bank Global Challenge Program on Forests for Development, Climate, and Biodiversity, Amazonia Viva will promote innovative solutions to deepen and broaden the support from the World Bank Group including the International Finance Corporation and Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency, working in partnership with the Inter-American Development Bank Group under the umbrella of the Amazonia Forever program. Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×