Event | More Than Twenty Years of Brazil’s Social Registry Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events More Than Twenty Years of Brazil’s Social Registry Share Overview Speakers Over the past two decades, Brazil has emerged as a global benchmark in the fight against hunger and poverty, combining bold policies with operational excellence to achieve lasting results. At the heart of this effort is the Single Registry, Cadastro Único, a dynamic and evolving social registry system that connects over 90 million people to more than 40 social programs, including Bolsa Família. While Cadastro Único has been a global reference from the outset, it has also evolved over the 24 years since its establishment through continuous innovation and adaptation to become this integrated data platform that today enables precise targeting, efficient service delivery, and a critical source of information for the country’s social protection system. About the event Join us for a special webinar showcasing Brazil’s journey in developing and sustaining one of the world’s most advanced and responsive social registries. We will hear directly from Liomar Lima, Director of Operations of the Secretariat for Evaluation, Information Management and Single Registry (SAGICAD), and Letícia Bartholo, former Secretary of SAGICAD and current Director of Research and Social Policies at the Institute for Applied Economic Research (IPEA). Together, they will share strategies, innovations, and lessons learned from two decades of practice in expanding social protection through data and integration. This event is open to the public, particularly government officials, technical staff, and representatives from social development, social assistance, and planning ministries, and other relevant government organizations interested in learning more about social protection policies in Brazil. The event will be in Portuguese with simultaneous interpretations to English, French, and Spanish . If you have any questions, please contact us at: splac@worldbank.org . Liomar Lima Liomar Leite de Morais Lima is the Director of Operations of the Single Registry at the Secretariat of Evaluation, Information Management and Single Registry. Federal servant as an Information Technology Analyst, he has a degree in Information Security, an MBA in Software Engineering and a master's degree in Data Science. He has more than 18 years of experience in Information Technology, with 14 years dedicated to the Single Registry for Social Programs. Letícia Bartholo Letícia Bartholo is a sociologist from Federal University of Brasilia with a master's degree in Demography from Federal University of Campinas. Since 2002, she has served as a member of the federal career of Specialist in Public Policy and Government Management. Her background includes management and research in non-contributory social protection, covering the social assistance network, income transfer programs such as Bolsa Família, and registration systems for identifying vulnerable populations. She held the position of Deputy National Secretary of Citizenship Income from 2012 to 2016 and served as National Secretary of Evaluation, Information Management, and Unified Registry from 2023 to 2025. Currently, she is the director of studies and social policies at IPEA (Institute for Applied Economic Research). FAQs Do I need to register to attend the event? Yes. Please use the Sign Up button to register. This confirms your attendance for either the in-person event or access to the livestream. Once registered, you’ll receive an email with event access details, location or login instructions, and timely reminders. What happens if I miss the event? The event recording will be available on this page shortly after it concludes. If you registered via the Sign Up button, you’ll receive a follow-up email with a link to watch the replay and access any resources shared during the event. Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×