Who Is Against Cheaper Food? --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News OPINION Who Is Against Cheaper Food? December 31, 2012 This page in: English Српски Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Loup Brefort, Country Manager for Serbia B92 Blog Returning to my Blog after much travel, I recently read that Serbia wants to keep import duties on 453 agriculture and food products from the EU. The argument says this will protect Serbia’s agricultural sector which will not be able to compete with European companies. But can we be sure it is in the interest of Serbian citizens? Let me first explain what I am talking about. Under the Stabilization and Association Agreement (SAA) signed with EU in 2004 Serbia must phase out tariffs on industrial and most agriculture products from the EU by 2014. As we are approaching the effectiveness date of the agreement, many interested groups are claiming they will not be able to cope with competition from the EU from 2014. Maybe, indeed, when Serbia entered into this commitment, it expected to join the EU earlier than it will. However, it may be hard to argue that the sector did not have plenty of time, and could not have done much more in a decade to prepare for this time. The question is: who is going to be protected? Consumers should be looking forward to liberalization. A simple example: I did my shopping for Christmas and New Year over the weekend. I found an imported product at RSD 161 for a certain quantity, while the locally produced one was being sold for RSD 204 for the same quantity and content, both non-organic. And the imported product price included import tariffs. Unfortunately, this was not an isolated case. One can indeed love one’s country and be eager to support domestic producers, but should that love really cost 20% more for each local product one buys? Given the share of food products in the consumer price index, protection may not be the best tool to lower inflation? How credible is the industry if, after being given ten years to adjust to forthcoming and predictable pressure from competition, it claims it still needs “some more time”? Maybe the voices of the consumers should be louder and contribute more to shaping agriculture sector policies? RELATED World Bank in Serbia Media Contacts In Belgrade Vesna Kostic Tel : +381 11 30 23 700 vkostic@worldbank.org Serbia Europe and Central Asia Trade Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.