Dispute Resolution Skip to main content Search Search button About Mandate & Governance Inspection Panel Dispute Resolution Service Key Documents People How It Works Admissibility & Eligibility Dispute Resolution Investigation & Verification Outreach File a Complaint File a Complaint Case Center News and Events News and Events Newsletter IAMnet Contacts Dispute Resolution Service If the Complainants/Requesters and the Borrower choose the dispute resolution option, here is what happens next: If a Request for Inspection is found to be eligible by the Inspection Panel and the Board approves, the Head of Dispute Resolution Service (DRS), within 30 business days after investigation approval, offers the Requesters and borrower the option of a voluntary and independent dispute resolution. If this offer is accepted, the DRS offers the Parties an opportunity to reach a voluntary agreement by: Facilitating dialogue between the Parties in a structured and neutral manner Utilizing a collaborative, flexible and situation-specific approach to assist the Parties in finding mutually satisfactory solutions to issues raised Facilitating the conclusion of an agreement on the issues so resolved And if the Parties so agree in the Dispute Resolution Agreement, the DRS will monitor its implementation. Dispute resolution generally has a one-year time limit to ensure that process is not prolonged and to incentivize the parties to reach an agreement. If both parties concur, the process can be extended for up to six months. The dispute resolution process concludes when one of the following occurs: (i) the Requesters and borrower reach agreement; (ii) one or both Parties withdraw from the dispute resolution process; or (iii) the dispute resolution period expires. At the conclusion of the dispute resolution process, the Head of DRS issues a report to the Executive Directors, the Inspection Panel, and Bank management informing them of the outcome. If the Head of DRS informs the Executive Directors that the parties have reached agreement and signed a Dispute Resolution Agreement, the case shall be considered closed. The Panel shall issue a memorandum closing the case and take no further action with respect to the request. If the process is not successful – or if the parties earlier had not agreed to dispute resolution – the case is transferred to the Inspection Panel for a compliance investigation. Meet the Dispute Resolution Service team Cases under Dispute Resolution Case Update Nov 15, 2024 Pakistan: Case No. 24/04/DRS Parties in Pakistan Khyber Pass Economic Corridor Project Agree to Pursue Dispute Resolution Pakistan: Case No. 24/04/DRS Case Update Mar 15, 2024 Vietnam: Case No. 23/03/DRS Parties in Vietnam Coastal Cities Project Agree to Pursue Dispute Resolution Vietnam: Case No. 23/03/DRS Case Update Jun 04, 2024 Cameroon: Case No. 22/03/DRS Independent Dispute Resolution Case in Cameroon Reaches Settlement Cameroon: Case No. 22/03/DRS Case Update Jun 04, 2023 Uganda: Case No. 21/01/DRS Mediation Paves Way for Agreement Between Parties in World Bank-financed Uganda Infrastructure Project Uganda: Case No. 21/01/DRS Case Update Apr 27, 2023 Nepal: Case No. 21/04/DRS World Bank's First Dispute Resolution Service Outcome: Parties Settle in Nepal Electricity Transmission Line Project Case Nepal: Case No. 21/04/DRS Subscribe to our Newsletter Subscribe --> About Mandate & Governance Inspection Panel Dispute Resolution Service Key Documents People How It Works Admissibility & Eligibility Dispute Resolution Investigation & Verification Outreach File a Complaint File a Complaint Case Center News and Events News and Events Newsletter IAMnet Contacts T: 1 202 458 5200 F: 1 202 522 0916 E: accountability@worldbank.org Facebook Twitter LinkedIn © 2024 by WBG ITSES | Photo Credit: Dominic Chavez This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×