50,000 Nicaraguans to Benefit from Better Sewage Connectivity --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY 50,000 Nicaraguans to Benefit from Better Sewage Connectivity January 7, 2011 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> STORY HIGHLIGHTS The condominial system requires homeowners to make collective decisions regarding monetary, maintenance, and development matters. Its participatory approach can help increase the rate of household connections to new sewer systems. Approximately 50,000 residents in Managua will benefit from pilot projects that use the new condominial system of managing household sanitation connections. The condominial system, which requires homeowners to make collective decisions regarding monetary, maintenance, and development matters, sparked interest among participants at a specialized workshop led by the World Bank and the Water and Sanitation Program (WSP) to address ways of increasing the rate of household connections to new sewer systems. Community leaders, along with 35 specialists from the Nicaraguan Water Utility Enacal, the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project ( Prasnica ), and the Municipality of Managua convened at the workshop to share good practices on low-cost sewer systems in Latin America; raise awareness of the importance of social participation to achieve better results; and identify meaningful lessons to strengthen the Nicaraguan water and sanitation sector. The condominial system raised interest because this participatory approach has led to substantial reductions in construction costs and improved operation and maintenance. As a result of the meeting, authorities from Enacal with support from the World Bank-funded PRASMA project (Water and Sanitation Program of Managua) have begun implementing this system through pilot projects, which if successful and scaled up, have the potential to benefit millions. RELATED WORLD BANK Nicaragua Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (PRASNICA) Greater Managua Water and Sanitation (PRASMA) EXTERNAL Water and Sanitation Program Nicaragua Latin America and Caribbean Health Water Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.