Event | EGATE: Advancing Regional Integration for E-Commerce in Central Asia Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic Share Overview Agenda & Speakers Presentation & Photos E-commerce is rapidly transforming global trade, providing Central Asian countries opportunities to overcome geographical constraints, access new markets, and foster inclusive economic growth. The World Bank-supported E-GATE pilot successfully facilitated over $21 million in small and medium enterprise (SME) exports. Notably, $16 million of this amount was in trade between Central Asian countries. Participating micro, small, and medium enterprises began engaging with buyers in more than 70 new international markets. To promote this agenda, the “Advancing Regional Integration for E-Commerce in Central Asia" conference will be held on June 10, 2025, in Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic. The event will bring together experts to share experiences and explore regional integration mechanisms. This conference will feature a presentation on program outcomes, followed by a high-level session focused on Central Asia’s e-commerce landscape and its integration into global trade. Subsequent sessions will explore key areas: logistics for e-commerce, the experiences of E-GATE participant companies, and a discussion on fintech solutions for e-commerce. The day will conclude with an Alibaba Masterclass for new and prospective customers. The conference aims to share knowledge, discuss practical solutions, and foster partnerships. It is a key step towards enhancing regional cooperation, building enabling policy frameworks, and unlocking investment to create a resilient and inclusive digital trade ecosystem in Central Asia. The conference is organized by the World Bank, supported by the UK Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO), in collaboration with the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic and key international and local partners. Key collaborators include Kyrgyz government agencies and state-affiliated entities such as the Ministry of Economy and Commerce of the Kyrgyz Republic, Kyrgyz Export, Kyrgyz Post, High-Tech Park, and the State Customs Service. Other important local partners include the Association of E-commerce of Kyrgyzstan, the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Sellers of Kyrgyzstan, the Association of Cross-border trade Kyrgyzstan, the Association of International Freight Carriers of the Kyrgyz Republic, the Association of Payment Operators, the Union of Banks, and the University of Central Asia. Regional and international partners include the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and private sector leaders such as Alibaba. Download the Agenda: in English in Kyrgyz in Russian Download the speakers' bios Download the presentation Download the event photos Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×