Poverty : Development news, research, data | World Bank Understanding Poverty Topics --> Poverty The World Bank Group uses the latest data, evidence, and analysis to help countries develop policies to effectively tackle poverty and improve people's lives. Poverty Home Overview Featured UPDATE Poverty and Inequality Update - Fall 2025 This update features the latest global poverty data and research. Poverty and Inequality Update - Fall 2025 BLOG Behind the Numbers: How We Measure Global Poverty Around 831 million people worldwide are living in extreme poverty. But how is this number derived? Where does the data come from? Behind the Numbers: How We Measure Global Poverty PAPER Tracking Gender Disparities in Global Poverty More than 400 million women around the world still live in extreme poverty, on less than $3 per day, with three-quarters residing in Sub-Saharan Africa. Tracking Gender Disparities in Global Poverty At a Glance After a period of significant progress, a series of recent overlapping crises and shocks have caused a slowdown in global poverty reduction. Today, one in ten people around the world still live in extreme poverty – deprived not only of an adequate income and livelihood, but also opportunity, dignity and hope. Extreme poverty has become increasingly concentrated in Sub-Saharan Africa and places impacted by conflict and fragility. Overview Data Poverty & Inequality Platform Data Knowledge --> Poverty, Prosperity, and Planet Report 2024: Pathways Out of the Polycrisis This report offers the first post-pandemic assessment of global progress toward ending extreme poverty and boosting shared prosperity on a livable planet, and explores potential pathways out of today's polycrisis. Learn More Focus Areas Measuring Poverty In order to monitor progress, it is important to measure poverty regularly. Measuring Poverty Inequality and Shared Prosperity Promoting shared prosperity is one of the goals of the World Bank Group. Inequality and Shared Prosperity Research View All Research Publication Poverty, Prosperity, and Planet Report 2024: Pathways Out of the Polycrisis Poverty, Prosperity, and Planet Report 2024: Pathways Out of the Polycrisis REPORTS Poverty & Equity Assessments Poverty & Equity Assessments BRIEFS Poverty & Equity Briefs Poverty & Equity Briefs Paper Child Poverty: Global, Regional and Select National Trends Child Poverty: Global, Regional and Select National Trends Use Our Data Open Data On selection, change the data Global Poverty at a Glance Global Poverty at a Glance The World Bank's Poverty and Inequality Platform provides estimates of poverty, inequality, and shared prosperity. Here you can access and visualize data, see trends, and monitor progress towards development targets. See also: LAC Equity Lab Blogs View All Blogs View All Blogs Experts --> Luis Felipe López-Calva Global Director, Poverty Global Department, World Bank Group Luis Felipe López-Calva Stay Connected News & Events What's New View All What's New Latest Events View All Events In Depth World Bank Group Academy - Poverty The World Bank Group Academy empowers government officials and private sector leaders to deliver transformative development solutions to reduce poverty. World Bank Group Academy - Poverty Macro Poverty Outlook The twice-annual Macro Poverty Outlook provides country-by-country analysis and poverty projections. Macro Poverty Outlook Umbrella Facility for Poverty and Equity The Umbrella Facility for Poverty and Equity (UFPE) is the first global trust fund to support the cross-cutting poverty and equity agenda. Umbrella Facility for Poverty and Equity IDA: Our Fund for the Poorest The International Development Association (IDA) aims to reduce poverty by providing funding for programs that boost economic growth. IDA: Our Fund for the Poorest Additional Resources Related Country Poverty & Equity Assessments Poverty & Equity Briefs Umbrella Facility for Poverty and Equity Living Standards Measurement Study Contact Paul Clare pclare@worldbank.org Leslie Yun lyun@worldbankgroup.org This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×