Event | Indigenous Economic Autonomy for a Sustainable Future Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Indigenous Economic Autonomy for a Sustainable Future Share Indigenous economic autonomy is essential to the long-term sustainability and selfdetermination of Indigenous Peoples. For generations, indigenous communities have developed economic systems rooted in reciprocity, redistribution, complementarity, and collective well-being. These systems preserve cultural heritage while fostering local resilience, social equity, and economic autonomy. Despite their strengths, indigenous economic models often face systemic barriers that limit their growth and sustainability, including lack of access to finance for business growth. This two-day global conference will offer a platform for knowledge exchange, dialogue, and collaboration among indigenous leaders, policymakers, financial institutions, and development practitioners. Where: World Bank, C Building C1-450, Washington DC. Via Zoom: May 29 | Register here May 30 | Register here Time: 9:00 A.M. Washington, DC Time OVERVIEW AGENDA RELATED Indigenous economic autonomy is essential for ensuring the long-term sustainability and self-determination of indigenous peoples. For generations, indigenous peoples have developed economic systems rooted in reciprocity, redistribution, complementarity, environmental stewardship, and collective well-being1. These systems not only preserve cultural heritage but also play an important role in safeguarding ecosystems essential for achieving well-being. However, indigenous peoples often face systemic barriers that undermine their capacity to maintain and expand these autonomous economic models. In this context, knowledge exchange among indigenous peoples is crucial for fostering both indigenous business growth and economic autonomy. This conference provides a platform for sharing global strategies and lessons learned, enabling indigenous peoples to share their unique knowledge, develop solutions based on proven models, and adapt them to their specific contexts, while fostering solidarity and collective progress. Through this collaborative approach, capacity-building is strengthened, and the interconnected roles of economic autonomy, indigenous governance and business climate are reinforced. The conference aims to promote indigenous leadership in economic development by fostering dialogue, sharing best practices, and building collaborative networks. This event will bring together indigenous leaders, policymakers, financial institutions, and experts from around the world to explore pathways for strengthening Indigenous economic systems and securing financial autonomy. May 29, 2025 Indigenous Economic Autonomy 9:00 – 9:30 Opening Remarks Regional Director for Sustainable Development for the Latin America and Caribbean Region, World Bank - Benoit Bosquet Minister of Finance and Public Credit of Colombia – Germán Ávila Plazas 9:30 – 10:45 Panel Discussion. Economic Development for Indigenous Peoples Self-Determination Permanent Roundtable for Consultation with Indigenous Peoples and Organizations (MPC), Colombia Armando Wuoriyú Valbuena – online Indigenous Multi-active Cooperative Buen Vivir Tito Arbey Pito Vargas – online 10:45 – 11:00 Coffee Break 11:00 – 11:45 Keynote Address. Development of Intercultural Economy, Well Being, and Indigenous Local Self-determination CODELCO, University Adolfo Ibañez, Chile - Eduardo Bitrán Colodro 11:45 – 1:15 Lunch Break 1:15 – 2:30 Panel Discussion. Business Climate for Indigenous Peoples Theme 1 . Path to Indigenous Economic Self-determination: Regional Economies and Indigenous Participation Indigenous Business Australia Darren Godwell Theme 2 . Māori Economy: A Transformation in Motio n OpinioNative Carrie Stoddart-Smith 2:30 – 2:45 Coffee Break 2:45 – 3:45 Indigenous-Led Investment & Enterprises for Sustainable Forests United Nations Development Programme Nina Kantcheva Indigenous Community Nuevo San Juan de Parangaricutiro, Mexico Hector Andres Anguiano Cuara 3:45 – 4:00 Final Reflection. Building Bridges to Sovereignty: Lessons Learned and Actions Ahead - World Bank — Germán Freire May 30, 2025 Indigenous Financing Models: Indigenous Banking 9:00 – 9:30 Welcoming Remarks Practice Manager, Social Development, Latin America and the Caribbean, World Bank - David Warren ProColombia – Andrés Felipe Castellanos Rodríguez , on behalf of Ambassador of Colombia to the United States Daniel García-Peña Jaramillo. 9:30 – 10:00 Keynote Address. Financial Systems and Economic Models for Indigenous Self-Determination Financiera para el Bienestar (FINABIEN), Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, Mexico – María del Rocío Mejía Flores – online 10:00 – 10:15 Coffee Break 10:15 – 11:45 Panel Discussion. Indigenous Ventures: Bridging Policy, Investment and Entrepreneurship Development Banking Unit, Head Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, Mexico Rogelio Rivero Márquez World Bank, Mexico Hector Peña Jimenez 11:45 – 1:00 Lunch Break 1:00 – 2:30 Panel Discussion. Indigenous Financial Institutions as Drivers of Economic Growth Podáali Indigenous Fund of the Brazilian Amazon Valeria Paye Pereira Indigenous Business Portfolio in Colombia, World Bank Sebastian Cantuarias 2:30 – 3:00 Closing Remarks. Indigenous Economic Sovereignty: A Call to Action Regional Director for Sustainable Development for the Latin America and Caribbean Region - Benoit Bosquet RSVP/ ADD TO CALENDAR - MAY 29 RSVP/ ADD TO CALENDAR - MAY 30 FAQs Do I need to register to attend the event? Yes. Please use the Sign Up button to register. This confirms your attendance for either the in-person event or access to the livestream. Once registered, you’ll receive an email with event access details, location or login instructions, and timely reminders. What happens if I miss the event? The event recording will be available on this page shortly after it concludes. If you registered via the Sign Up button, you’ll receive a follow-up email with a link to watch the replay and access any resources shared during the event. Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×