Data.gov Launches New Catalog and APIs - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Back to updates Data.gov Launches New Catalog and APIs By Data.gov admins · May 22, 2013 Data.gov is launching two innovations today to mark both the anniversary of the Digital Government Strategy and the fourth anniversary of Data.gov. First is a comprehensive listing of the application programming interfaces (APIs) that were released from across the federal government as part of the Digital Government Strategy. These APIs will fuel the development of new apps on everything from health, public safety, education, consumer protection, and many more topics of interest to Americans. Developers can find all the government’s APIs in one place, with links to API documentation and other resources. Data.gov is also launching a new data catalog on an open source data management system called CKAN . The new catalog features a number of enhancements, such as an improved search that helps you find all the datasets for a particular location, better sorting and tagging of datasets, and more robust metadata. Data.gov now has one unified data catalog based on an open source standard that will make it easier to federate with other federal agency catalogs, as well as those of states , cities , and counties . The new CKAN catalog will also enable the central implementation of the Open Data Policy, as it will easily harvest the data inventories that federal agencies will be creating under the policy. The result will be an easy-to-use, comprehensive catalog that will allow citizens, developers and others to fully take advantage of the vast array of federal data that affects the daily lives of citizens. We also released new tools on Project Open Data that will help agencies easily meet the requirement of the policy, while laying the foundation for the new Data.gov infrastructure across government. Today is just the first step in a number of dramatic improvements in Data.gov scheduled for the months ahead. If you are a developer and want to follow along on the progress, check out the Project Open Data repository on GitHub. Be sure to check out the government-wide APIs and new catalog and stay tuned! About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov