David Freedman Announced as World Bank Group Resident Representative for Timor-Leste Who We Are News PRESS RELEASE July 1, 2025 David Freedman Announced as World Bank Group Resident Representative for Timor-Leste Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Dili, July 1, 2025 – David Freedman has been appointed as the World Bank Group Resident Representative for Timor-Leste, a position that unifies country-level leadership across the institution to better support the country’s public and private sector priorities. David will lead the programs of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)/ International Development Association (IDA), International Finance Corporation (IFC), and Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) in Timor-Leste, providing a single point of contact for access to the full breadth of World Bank Group products and services. This will enhance the institutions’ ability to address global challenges, and drive development with speed, efficiency, and impact. “Timor-Leste has come a long way since regaining independence. The country is at an important stage in its development, and we hope to contribute to inclusive economic growth, job creation, and shared prosperity in the coming years. The move to a World Bank Group Joint Representation will help us to be more efficient and effective. We will be preparing a new strategy to guide our work in Timor-Leste and aim to strengthen our partnership with the government, private sector, and the people of Timor-Leste. We are ready to listen and to work as true partners,” said David Freedman, the World Bank Group Resident Representative for Timor-Leste. The World Bank Group’s engagement in Timor-Leste focuses on supporting the country’s efforts to promote productive employment, diversify its economy, and strengthen fiscal sustainability. This includes providing technical assistance and policy support to improve spending efficiency, enhance public financial management, and advance reforms that foster private sector-led growth and broader economic opportunities. David Freedman joined the World Bank Group in 2021 as the IFC Resident Representative for Timor-Leste. Originally from the UK, he trained as an economist at the University of Nottingham and University of British Columbia. Before joining the World Bank Group, he worked for the Asian Development Bank in several roles including Head of Economics, Strategy, and Programming in Cambodia. He speaks several languages including Chinese, Spanish, and Tetum. About the World Bank Group : The World Bank Group has a bold vision: to create a world free of poverty on a livable planet. In more than 100 countries, the World Bank Group provides financing, advice, and innovative solutions that improve lives by creating jobs, strengthening economic growth, and confronting the most urgent global development challenges. The World Bank Group is one of the largest sources of funding and knowledge for developing countries. It consists of the World Bank, including the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association (IDA); the International Finance Corporation (IFC); the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA); and the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID). For more information, please visit www.worldbank.org , www.miga.org , and www.ifc.org . PRESS RELEASE NO: 2026/002/EAP Contacts In Washington Geetanjali Chopra gchopra@worldbank.org In Jakarta Tyagita Silka Hapsari +1 202 369 0773 thapsari@ifc.org In Jakarta --> In Jakarta Lestari Boediono +62-21-5299-3156 lboediono@worldbank.org RELATED World Bank in Timor-Leste World Bank in East Asia and Pacific Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×