Improving early childhood education through interactions Who We Are News This page in: English Español This page in: English Español Video March 26, 2024 Improving early childhood education through interactions Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina We interviewed Juan Maragall, education specialist at the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) in El Salvador , who shares what he believes are the keys to quality early childhood education: focused investments and attention to interactions. Why is it important to invest in the quality of early childhood education? The quality of early childhood education determines to a large extent people's future in school, and to the extent that children are better prepared when they enter school, we increase their chances of being successful, of having a complete schooling, a complete trajectory, and you increase their chances of having a successful life project and of incorporating themselves productively into society. Now, the great challenge we have in early childhood is that we have to make targeted investments in those who need it most. We have to adjust a level, a quality offer, with the resources we have, because in Latin America we have serious resource limitations, but if you manage, with the resources you have, to make a quality offer in the targeted populations, you can make a big difference in the future of the people and in the future development of that country. What recommendation would you give to countries that are redesigning their early childhood education system? I think they have to pay attention first to the fact that the quality of early care has a structural component and another one that is associated with the interaction of people with children. You have to pay special attention to the interaction and train very well the people who take care of the children, support them, accompany them, provide them with development standards, provide them with guidelines on how that interaction should be. Both those who care for children and early childhood in institutional centers and those who support families in this process. It is important to understand that quality has to do with interaction and that we have to strengthen and improve these interactions. To look for modalities of care that are adapted to what children and certain social sectors really need with the possibilities of what the country can offer them. Interviewer: Álvaro G. de Pablo, Communications Associate at The World Bank RELATED Interview with Norbert Schady: Global Lessons for improving Early Childhood Education in Latin America and the Caribbean Interview with Emanuela Di Gropello: The importance of investing in a high-quality Early Childhood Education in Latin America and the Caribbean Interview with Mauricio Pineda y Alejandra Posada: Early childhood education, an opportunity to strengthen El Salvador's human capital Interview with Claudia Lagos: "Children are not a future hypothesis" Interview with Francisco Lima: Keys to literacy success for Sobral's children Why is it important to improve education in Panama? Download the publication 'Quality Early Learning: Nurturing Children’s Potential' This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×