Event | Investing in Clean Air: How Multilateral Development Banks Are Accelerating Access Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Investing in Clean Air: How Multilateral Development Banks Are Accelerating Access Share Overview Agenda Speakers Today, 99% of the global population is exposed to unsafe air, with the heaviest burdens falling on low- and middle-income countries. Yet solutions exist. The World Bank’s recent report Accelerating Access to Clean Air for a Livable Planet shows that cutting global exposure to dangerous PM2.5 levels in half by 2040 is both achievable and affordable - if countries adopt integrated approaches that combine strong air quality governance, reliable data, and catalytic investments. To mark the International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies, this event brought together multilateral development banks (MDBs) to showcase how they are helping countries tackle air pollution through knowledge, innovative financing, and partnerships. Panelists shared country experiences, lessons learned, and actionable opportunities for scaling up investment in clean air - highlighting how MDBs can work with governments and the private sector to deliver cleaner, healthier, and more sustainable growth. AGENDA: Time Presentation Speaker 9:30-9:40 AM Welcome and opening remarks Junaid Ahmad, Vice President, Operations, Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) 9:40-10:20 AM Panel discussion Speakers: Ashraf El-Arini, Senior Environmental Specialist, South Asia region, the World Bank Lei Zhang, Head, Project Administration Unit Head, Energy Sector Office, Asian Development Bank (ADB) Lyza Rossi, Associate, Sustainable Business and Infrastructure, Climate Strategy and Delivery, European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) Elena Golub, Senior Environmental Economist, Europe and Central Asia region, the World Bank Moderator : Sandra Cavalieri, Hub Manager, Climate and Clean Air Coalition (CCAC) Secretariat 10:20-10:50 AM Q&A with audience Moderator + speakers 10:50-11:00 AM Closing remarks Genevieve Connors, Acting Director, Global Environment Department, the World Bank Ashraf El-Arini Senior Environmental Specialist, South Asia region, the World Bank Ashraf El-Arini is a Senior Environmental Specialist for the World Bank's South Asia region, where he serves as Task Team Leader for the Bangladesh Clean Air Project and co-coordinates the World Bank's Indo-Gangetic Plain and Himalayan Foothills (IGP-HF) regional air quality management (AQM) program. His work focuses on AQM and pollution mitigation solutions across the region. Prior to his current role in South Asia, Ashraf worked in the World Bank's East Asia and Pacific (EAP) region, where he worked on air quality and other critical pollution issues in Viet Nam, Lao PDR, Thailand, and Malaysia. Learn More Lei Zhang Project Administration Unit Head, Energy Sector Office, Asian Development Bank (ADB) Lei Zhang has 28 years of professional experience in preparation and administration of infrastructure projects, particularly in the energy sector. He joined ADB as energy specialist in 2010. He has worked for around 5 years each in South Asia Energy Division and Central and West Asia Energy Division including over 3 years outpost at ADB’s Pakistan Resident Mission. In April 2020, he joined East Asia Sustainable Infrastructure Division as Unit Head of Project Administration. From 30 June 2023, under the new operating model, he joined the Energy Sector Office as Unit Head of Project Administration for portfolio management of all energy projects financed by ADB. Learn More Lyza Rossi Associate, Sustainable Business and Infrastructure, Climate Strategy and Delivery, European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) A chartered architect and engineer, after starting her career in the design & construction industry, she pursued further studies in urban development, with a focus on low- and middle-income countries. Lyza joined the EBRD in 2022, where she is part of the team responsible for sustainability-related assessments of infrastructure investments and related policy work, as well the delivery of the EBRD Green Cities programme. Prior to the EBRD, she worked at the European Commission and UN-Habitat, and practised architecture in Italy, Spain and the UK. Lyza holds master’s degrees in Buildings Engineering and Architecture from Università di Pisa (Italy) and in Urban Development Planning from University College London (UK). Learn More Elena Golub Senior Environmental Economist, Senior Environmental Economist, Europe and Central Asia region, the World Bank Elena Strukova Golub is a Senior Environmental Economist at the World Bank, Europe and Central Asia region. Elena leads and contributes to air quality assessments and policy reform initiatives, particularly in Central Asia and Europe. She has played a key role in flagship reports such as CCDRs and the Global Report on Access to Clean Air. Elena collaborates across sectors and regions on green growth strategies, labor market modeling, and integrated development planning with emphasis on resilience, productivity enhancement, and the co-benefits of improved air quality. Learn More Sandra Cavalieri Moderator Hub Manager, Climate and Clean Air Coalition (CCAC) Secretariat Sandra Cavalieri leads the CCAC Secretariat's Sectoral Hubs on waste, fossil fuels, agriculture, household energy, heavy-duty vehicles and engines, and cooling. She supports integration of super pollutant mitigation solutions into the CCAC’s Clean Air Flagship objectives and Air Quality Management Platform (AQMx). Prior to joining the CCAC Secretariat in 2012, Sandra was a policy analyst at the Ecologic Institute in Berlin, Germany where she coordinated multi-year stakeholder dialogues focused on several climate change topics, including Arctic environmental governance. Learn More Genevieve Connors Acting Global Director, Environment Department Genevieve Connors is currently the Acting Director, Environment Department, the World Bank, where she manages corporate engagements and global programs on the blue economy, forests and landscapes, the economics and finance of nature, biodiversity and wildlife, and chemical, air, and plastics pollution. From 2022-24, she was the Practice Manager for Environment, Natural Resources, and the Blue Economy in the region of Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC). Her group covered operational business lines across a range of sectors – including forestry, biodiversity, pollution, oceans, and climate change – as well as environmental risk management under the Bank’s Environment and Social Framework (ESF) for 28 countries. Prior to this, from 2017-2022, she was the Practice Manager for Advisory and Operations in the Climate Change Group, where she oversaw tracking and reporting of climate mainstreaming and climate finance in Bank operations. From 2014-2017, she was the Program Leader for Water and Sustainability in the India Country Office, based in New Delhi, leading operations and analytical work in the Bank’s sustainability sectors, including water, environment, agriculture, rural development, disaster management and climate change. From 2011-2015, she supervised implementation of the National Ganga River Basin Project, the $1 billion loan to the Government of India to support cleaning of the Ganges River, and was a founding member of the South Asia Water Initiative (SAWI) to increase regional cooperation in the management of Himalayan river systems. She has a B.A. in Modern History from Columbia, an M.Phil. in Development Studies from Cambridge, and a Ph.D in Urban and Regional Planning from MIT. She joined the World Bank as a Young Professional in 2006. Learn More Event Details Date: September 10, 2025 Time: 09:30 AM - 11:00 AM ET Virtual: VIEW RECORDING HERE Event Contact: Shaheera Syed ssyed7@worldbankgroup.org Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×