Nuts & Bolts: Using National Education Management Information Systems to Make Local Service Improvements - the Case of Pakistan --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Understanding Poverty Topics Poverty publication Nuts & Bolts: Using National Education Management Information Systems to Make Local Service Improvements - the Case of Pakistan Latest Issue: Number 30, Volume 5 Latest Issue: Number 30, Volume 5 --> Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Students of the Government Najeeb Memorial Girls High School in Gujranwala, Pakistan Visual News Associates / World Bank Education management information systems (EMISs), usually located within the ministry of education, are tools that can help governments improve education system administration by providing information that can be used in strategic planning, resource allocation, and monitoring and evaluation. Frequently, however, they are underutilized and become merely a reporting mechanism. Using the data at the point of collection—usually individual schools in a decentralized environment—and feeding them into service improvement action plans can improve local education outcomes. Pakistan established a national EMIS (NEMIS) in 1993 to collect, maintain, and disseminate data to support policy making, planning, and management at each level of government. Despite a number of challenges facing the national system - lack of funding, human resources constraints, delays in district data submission and inconsistent data quality - local governments and school authorities have succeeded in using EMIS data to improve education quality and learning outcomes. This note argues that in decentralized settings using EMIS data at the local level can help bypass problems with the national system, create the right incentives for enhancing data quality, and improve education indicators due to informed decision making. " The majority of countries worldwide already have an EMIS. Many officials have, at the ready, information to improve education service indicators. Even data of uneven quality can be used to make service improvements. " EMIS was piloted in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) province and expanded successfully to Punjab and Sindh provinces, covering 344 districts and approximately 921 schools. Supported by a USAID project, the district governments developed and used a performance management tool (PMT) for education, which incorporated EMIS data. The design and implementation of the PMT for education initiative across the three provinces took 15 months, with results seen as early as 6–9 months into the process. Performance Management Tool for Education: Results Source: DTW reports. Note: — = results not available. Pakistan’s experience provides lessons that can be relevant for other countries. The note outlines Pakistan’s NEMIS and its data collection process, provides a description of the local government context, and discusses the results of the PMT for education, factors for success, and potential for replication in developing countries. Read the full note here . Education Pakistan A World Bank newsletter that shares knowledge and best practices on public-sector monitoring and evaluation systems. About Nuts & Bolts Read this issue (PDF) Nuts & Bolts February 2014: Performance Management Can Improve Local Services in Developing Countries Past Issues Contact us RELATED Evidence-Based Public Policy Poverty Home --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.