New World Bank Support to Improve Education and Learning for Young Children in Cambodia Who We Are News PRESS RELEASE August 31, 2025 New World Bank Support to Improve Education and Learning for Young Children in Cambodia Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina WASHINGTON, August 29, 2025 — Over 1.7 million Cambodian children are set to benefit from improved primary schooling following the World Bank’s approval of the Basic Education Improvement Project . Co-financed by a $100 million credit from the World Bank’s International Development Association and a $5 million grant from the Early Learning Partnership Multi-Donor Trust Fund , the project will strengthen foundational literacy and numeracy skills in primary schools across the country. It will also expand access to early childhood education and childcare services, improve teaching quality, upgrade school infrastructure, and strengthen education management systems. “This project reflects the Royal Government of Cambodia’s strong commitment to investing in human capital and ensuring that every child has the opportunity to learn,” said Hang Chuon Naron, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education, Youth and Sport. “By focusing on foundational learning, we are laying the groundwork for a more resilient and prosperous future.” Cambodia has made strides in expanding access to education, but assessments show that many children are not acquiring the basic literacy and numeracy skills needed for continued educational progress or high-skilled jobs. The Basic Education Improvement Project will address these challenges through cost-effective, evidence-based actions that improve learning outcomes. “Cambodia’s long-term growth depends on the strength of its human capital,” said Tania Meyer, World Bank Country Manager. “This project will help children acquire the foundational skills they need to succeed in school and in their future careers. The World Bank is proud to support a stronger, more resilient education system that prepares Cambodian children for the jobs of tomorrow.” The project will support the development of 60 public childcare centers and 60 new preschool classes to help working mothers access safe, affordable childcare while promoting school readiness. In addition to 1.7 million Cambodian children who are projected to benefit from improved primary education, approximately 2,200 children ages 0–2 years and 50,000 children ages 3–5 years will benefit from childcare and preschool expansion, respectively. To scale up early grade reading and math programs nationwide, the project will offer mentoring and coaching to over 37,000 teachers and targeted instruction to students who have fallen behind. To reduce overcrowding and improve learning environments, it will finance the construction of more than 900 new classrooms and equip schools with gender-separated toilets and hand-washing facilities. PRESS RELEASE NO: 2026/009/EAP Contacts Phnom Penh Saroeun Bou +855 12 414 088 sbou@worldbank.org Washington Geetanjali Chopra gchopra@worldbank.org RELATED World Bank in Cambodia World Bank in East Asia and Pacific World Bank Education Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×