Updates - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Updates Previous 1 … 5 6 7 … 14 Next Energy Infrastructure Framing Questions June 19, 2015 By Data.gov admins Energy 1. How are fundamental energy resources impacted by climate? 2. How might changes in climate and natural resource availability impact energy conversion infrastructure and processes? 3. How might climate impact energy transmission and distribution systems? 4. How might energy … Continued Transportation Framing Questions June 8, 2015 Transportation How will climate trends affect transportation systems and their future design? What parts of the transportation system will be most vulnerable to climate change?… Continued A multi-university initiative makes global climate information more accesible to farmers May 19, 2015 By Ana Pinheiro Privette Useful to Usable (u2u) offers a suite of online tools created to help farmers and agricultural advisers manage increasingly variable weather and climate conditions across the Corn Belt. They provide historical climate data that help inform purchasing, marketing and activity planning … Continued Coastal Flooding Theme Adds Thirteen New Datasets April 27, 2015 By Kaylin Bugbee In a continued effort to provide key datasets that support the process of developing resilience to climate change, thirteen additional datasets are now available in the Coastal Flooding theme. These datasets include: NOAA Climate Data Record (CDR) of Sea Surface… Continued Human Health Framing Questions April 23, 2015 By Debra Peters Human Health 1. In what ways does the changing climate affect public health where I live? 2. What risk factors make individuals or communities more vulnerable to climate-related health effects? 3. How can public health agencies, communities, and individuals plan... Continued Ecosystem Vulnerability Framing Questions April 23, 2015 By Data.gov admins Ecosystem Vulnerability 1. Help communities and natural resource managers determine if they are currently at risk from wildfires and if they will be impacted in the future due to wildfires becoming more prevalent and severe. 2. Provide information to the public on their sources of water and their sensitivities to climate change. 3. Aid in the public understanding... Continued Coastal Flooding Framing Questions April 23, 2015 By Data.gov admins Coastal Flooding 1. What areas are currently at greatest risk of coastal flooding? 2. What areas are going to be impacted in the future as sea level rises? 3. In what areas are there additional factors that add to the risk?... Continued Coastal Flooding Theme Adds Eleven New Datasets April 14, 2015 By Kaylin Bugbee In a continued effort to provide key datasets that support the process of developing resilience to climate change, eleven additional datasets are now available in the Coastal Flooding theme. These datasets include: NOAA Optimum Interpolation 1/4 Degree Daily Sea Surface… Continued Ecosystem Vulnerability Theme Adds Eleven New Datasets April 14, 2015 By Kaylin Bugbee In a continued effort to provide key datasets that support the process of developing resilience to climate change, eleven additional datasets are now available in the Ecosystem Vulnerability theme. These datasets include: Quality Controlled Local Climatological Data (QCLCD) Publication U.S.… Continued Launch of Health theme of Climate.Data.Gov March 23, 2015 By Ana Pinheiro Privette (April 7th 2015) The U.S. Government has released a collection of datasets to help individuals and communities plan for the impacts of climate change on the public's health. These resources can help answer a number of relevant questions, including: In what… Continued Previous 1 … 5 6 7 … 14 Next About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov