Food Price Watch, July 2013: Prices Continue to Drop, But Food Subsidies a Concern --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Understanding Poverty Topics Poverty publication Food Price Watch, July 2013: Prices Continue to Drop, But Food Subsidies a Concern Latest Issue: July 2013, No 14, Volume 4 Latest Issue: July 2013, No 14, Volume 4 --> Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Highlights Food prices remain high even after prices of internationally traded food decreased between February and June 2013, the third consecutive quarterly decline. Higher production, declining imports and increasing stocks pushed down export prices. Uncertain weather conditions and domestic policy decisions still warrant close monitoring going forward. Prices of internationally traded food declined for the third consecutive quarter since their historical peak in August of 2012. Increased production, declining imports and increasing stocks are exerting downward pressure on export prices, but international prices remain tight for maize. " The long-held consensus regarding consumer food subsidies...is that when untargeted and poorly implemented, they are not effective in helping the poor. They can also distort market prices and agricultural production, while leaving nations with a hefty fiscal bill. " Food Price Watch, 2013 The World Bank's Food Price Index The World Bank Prices remain high and with recent price increases in May and June, uncertainties surrounding unstable weather conditions and domestic policy decisions among key food producers warrant close scrutiny. Domestic policies worth watching include public procurement policies, but also consumer price subsidies, which, far from being a thing of the past, continue to be used – even though subsidies often bring meager benefits to the poor, high fiscal costs, corruption episodes and unproven nutritional effects. Recent decisions by the governments of India, Indonesia and Benin to extend consumer food subsidies indicate that such policies remain in vogue. Between the 1950s and 1970s, developing countries used universal food subsidies as major components of their poverty alleviation strategies. Lately, rising food prices and recurring price spikes have revived the popularity of such subsidies, leading countries with high poverty and weak safety nets to make food available at below-market prices – for example by subsidizing imports or giving vulnerable groups access to food discount stores. Yet, the long-held consensus regarding consumer food subsidies, just as with electricity and fuel subsidies, is that when untargeted and poorly implemented, they are not effective in helping the poor. They can also distort market prices and agricultural production, while leaving nations with a hefty fiscal bill. Data from the Middle East and North Africa, the region most dependent on generalized subsidies, illustrate the harmful equity and fiscal implications of consumer subsidies. According the International Monetary Fund estimates, only 35 percent of the amount spent on subsidies there reaches the bottom 40 percent of the population. Country-specific estimates also confirm that the share of benefits from food subsidies reaching the poor is a fraction of total benefits. Read full report Food Price Watch is followed by development professionals, students, journalists, economists and others with an interest in global food markets and nutrition. About Food Price Watch Full Report Press Release Past Issues Subscribe About the Author Contact the Author RELATED TOPICS The Food Crisis Shocks and Vulnerabilities COLLABORATION SecureNutrition Knowledge Platform MULTIMEDIA Video VIDEO World Bank Says Food Prices Dropping From All-Time Highs --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.