Remarks by World Bank Group President Jim Yong Kim at the Announcement of the Transformative Carbon Asset Facility --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News Speeches & Transcripts Remarks by World Bank Group President Jim Yong Kim at the Announcement of the Transformative Carbon Asset Facility November 30, 2015 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> World Bank Group President Jim Yong Kim Announcement of the Transformative Carbon Asset Facility Paris, France As Prepared for Delivery I am delighted to join Prime Minister Solberg of Norway and other partners from Sweden, Germany and Switzerland today to announce the Transformative Carbon Asset Facility. Climate change is a fundamental threat to sustainable economic development and the fight against poverty. Without bold action now, the warming planet threatens to put prosperity out of reach of millions of people and roll back decades of development. Working with client countries to mitigate emissions in innovative ways – such as through this new facility – will help us accelerate progress toward the World Bank Group’s twin goals of eliminating extreme poverty by 2030 and promoting shared prosperity in a sustainable manner. The goal of this facility is to help developing countries transition from planning to implementing mitigation policies using carbon pricing mechanisms, by providing payments for results and, in the process, help achieve their climate objectives. Collectively, our country partners expect to commit more than $250 million dollars next year to open the facility. It will remain open for additional contributions and funders until an initial target of $500 million dollars is reached. This facility is one of the new initiatives that the World Bank Group is announcing as a part of its commitment to actions by countries to avoid a 2 degree Celsius temperature rise. New investments in clean energy and other climate smart-infrastructure are critical to achieving commitments made by developing countries. This facility will provide countries with incentives to implement carbon pricing measures and policies that have a lasting impact on mitigating climate change. Once we reach our $500 million dollar target, the facility will leverage more than $2 billion dollars in financing from the World Bank Group and other sources. Later this afternoon, I will be launching -- with heads of state -- the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition to support carbon pricing policies. This facility is a wonderful complement as it creates new incentives to shift toward low carbon development. Thank you. RELATED Press Release : TCAF launch Media Contacts In Washington DC Isabel Hagbrink Tel : +1 (202) 458-0422 ihagbrink@worldbank.org France Europe and Central Asia Climate Change Norway Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.