Event | Managing AI security risks Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Managing AI security risks Share Overview Speakers Governments and organizations worldwide are rapidly integrating AI into essential services—from digital public infrastructure to healthcare and finance. As AI becomes mission-critical, ensuring its security is emerging as a priority, including for developing countries. Today’s AI models are exposed to new vulnerabilities such as misalignment, prompt injection, data poisoning and model inversion. When exploited, they can lead to significant risks such as unauthorized access to sensitive data, generation of harmful or misleading outputs, and potential misuse with far-reaching implications for public safety. This World Bank webinar will explore the main security risks faced by AI systems, as well as the concrete safeguards emerging across the AI lifecycle to better manage them—from “constitutional” guardrails and red teaming exercises to post-deployment monitoring and incident response protocols. The discussion will also consider how these risks and mitigations may apply to emerging AI architectures, such as “small AI” and agentic AI. Tailored for policymakers and practitioners in developing countries, the webinar will offer practical steps to build and operate AI systems that are resilient and trustworthy. Christine Zhenwei Qiang Opening remarks Global Director, Digital Vice Presidency, World Bank Ghislain de Salins Moderator Global Lead for Cybersecurity, World Bank Elham Tabassi Panelist Director, Artificial Intelligence and Emerging Technology Initiative (AIET), Brookings Karine Perset Panelist Head, OECD.AI Conrad Tucker Panelist Director, Carnegie Mellon University Africa Gabriel Nicholas Panelist Product Policy Manager, Anthropic Event Details Date: October 01, 2025 Time: 10:00 AM - 11:30 AM ET Location: Zoom Virtual: Watch the recording here Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×