Investments in Aquaculture Could Create More than 20 Million Jobs by 2050 Who We Are News PRESS RELEASE June 24, 2025 Investments in Aquaculture Could Create More than 20 Million Jobs by 2050 Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Entebbe, Uganda, June 24, 2025 – Aquaculture could generate as many as 22 million new jobs by 2050, according to a new report that foresees a $1.5 trillion investment opportunity in the sector over the same period. Produced by the World Bank and the World Wildlife Fund, Harnessing the Waters: A Trillion Dollar Investment Opportunity in Sustainable Aquaculture positions aquaculture as one of the most promising opportunities for building a more sustainable food system over the next 25 years. Based on the sector's current trajectory, business-as-usual investments of US$0.5 trillion could increase growth of aquaculture at a rate of 1.9 per cent to 159 million metric tons - excluding seaweeds - and generate 8 to 14 million new jobs by 2050. In contrast, investing US$1.5 trillion in more ambitious measures could increase global aquaculture production to 255 million metric tons by 2050, almost 100 million metric tons higher than the “business-as-usual” case, and create between 13 and 22 million jobs. “To realize aquaculture’s full potential, we must shift toward practices that are not only productive, but also environmentally responsible, socially inclusive, and economically viable,” said Genevieve Connors, acting Global Director Department of Environment at the World Bank . “This is a call to action – to deepen collaboration, to invest boldly in new aquaculture technologies, and to foster stronger alignment between public and private sectors.” With global seafood demand rising and wild fisheries stretched to their limits, aquaculture has become essential to food security, economic growth, and sustainability, and is now responsible for nearly 60 percent of global seafood production. Aquaculture also has the lowest carbon footprint and lowest greenhouse gas emissions of all animal protein production sectors. “Aquaculture is among the most sustainable ways to produce animal protein and will be essential in feeding the world’s growing population,” said Sergio Nates, Senior Director for Aquaculture at WWF . “As the sector continues to expand, it holds immense potential to deliver positive social impact globally. It’s critical that we guide this growth through sustainable and responsible production practices.” In order to reach its full potential, the sector now requires innovative financing to scale, particularly in emerging markets. The report analyzes investment trends and financial mechanisms shaping the industry’s future, concluding that aquaculture’s sustainable growth potential requires a significant transition from small-scale to more intensive production. The report draws insights from seven mature aquaculture industries across the globe – Bangladesh, Chile, China, Ecuador, Egypt, Thailand and Vietnam - examining how financial mechanisms and evolving roles of public and private sectors have shaped their development to inform future investments in sustainable aquaculture. It establishes sustainable aquaculture as a pillar of global food systems and showcases financing models for aquaculture expansion and investment risks and opportunities. The report is designed for financial institutions, governments, philanthropies, and private investors looking to expand their portfolios in the blue economy, and with seafood production expected to increase by 14 percent by 2032, aquaculture offers just that opportunity. PRESS RELEASE NO: 2025/084/Planet Contacts In Washington Nicolas Douillet +1 (202) 378-7468 ndouillet@worldbankgroup.org In Washington Melissa Bryant +1 (202) 891-9397 mbryant@worldbankgroup.org RELATED Download the full report Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×