Event | Innovative Legal Pathways to Unlock Agrifinance for Smallholder Farmers Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Innovative Legal Pathways to Unlock Agrifinance for Smallholder Farmers Share Overview Smallholder farmers are vital to economic development and addressing food insecurity and sustainability challenges in developing countries, yet they face significant hurdles in obtaining credit and remain largely excluded from formal financial systems. To help close the smallholder financing gap, ADB, IFAD and other partners are developing a cutting-edge toolkit to serve as a springboard for action for policymakers and financial service providers. This toolkit provides comprehensive guidance on designing systems and credit products to increase access to finance for smallholder farmers, including legal and regulatory frameworks that address financing barriers. Within the context of the broader agrifinance ecosystem, this session will explore how legal solutions can bridge the smallholder finance gap by: developing enabling regulatory ecosystems that incentivize extending credit to smallholder farmers; leveraging blended finance to de-risk agricultural investments; creating legal structures for digital finance to integrate farmers into formal financial systems; standardizing contract models to improve access to finance; and aligning policies with practice to ensure sustainable and scalable agrifinance solutions. By showcasing insights from the ADB, IFAD, and other international partners, this session will outline a practical roadmap to unlock agrifinance for smallholder farmers. Speakers: Thomas Clark , General Counsel, Asian Development Bank Marek Dubovec , Director of Law Reform Programs, International Law Institute Dil Rahut , Vice-Chair of Research and Senior Research Fellow, Asian Development Bank Institute Adam Struve , Global Lead, Agriculture Commodities, Global Agribusiness and Forestry Practices, International Finance Corporation Anna Veneziano , Deputy Secretary General, International Institute for the Unification of Private Law Moderator: Katherine Meighan , Chief Legal and Governance Officer, International Fund for Agriculture Return to the main LJD Week event website here . Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×