An investment in children’s future: shining a light on school meals data Who We Are News FEATURE STORY November 21, 2025 An Investment in Children’s Future: Shining a Light on School Meals Data Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Photo: Bart Verweij/World Bank STORY HIGHLIGHTS A unique partnership across three institutions shines a light on school feeding programs. Crucial data gaps remain, with many low-income countries unable to provide school meals data. Partnership and collaboration are crucial to fill urgent data gaps and build the capacity of countries to stay the course for school feeding programs. An investment in children’s futures School meals are a vital investment in children’s futures, reducing malnutrition, boosting school attendance, and promoting gender equality by helping girls remain in school longer. Among the largest nutrition-sensitive social protection programs, school meals are crucial to the World Bank’s goal of reaching 500 million more people with social protection and employment by 2030, as announced during the launch of the Global Alliance Against Hunger and Poverty in 2024. However, data on school meals has long been fragmented and outdated, making it difficult to assess their coverage, quality and real impact over time. A unique partnership is helping to address this critical gap across three institutions: the Global Food and Nutrition Security Dashboard , the World Bank’s Atlas of Social Protection: Indicators of Resilience and Equity (ASPIRE) and the Global Child Nutrition Foundation’s Global Survey of School Meal Programs , bringing multiple, yet harmonized data sources into a single platform. Through this partnership, Global Survey data was integrated into ASPIRE, harmonizing it with other social protection programs to ensure comparability across countries and over time; this standardized dataset was then incorporated into the Global Food and Nutrition Security Dashboard, where it is featured alongside other indicators, providing policymakers with a clear picture of need and coverage. By integrating the Global Survey data, the core data source for the School Meals Coalition’s database, into a harmonized platform, decision-makers can contextualize school feeding within a broader view of food security and nutrition-sensitive social protection. The partnership is a step forward in making relevant data accessible to policymakers, enabling governments to benchmark global progress and make evidence-based decisions. Mind the data gap While the Global Survey shows a steady increase in the number of children benefiting from school meals, with governments sourcing food directly from local farmers and diversifying into nutritious foods such as fish, dairy and vegetables, major data gaps persist. There is no clear picture of how most developing countries deliver this crucial form of social protection. In low-income countries, for example, weak capacity and conflict can make it difficult to report spending on social protection, including school meals. “ School meal programs are an important source of jobs, particularly for women—the school feeding labor force is mostly women in most places in the world ,” said Ayala Wineman, Research Scientist, GCNF. Even the ASPIRE Database, which covers many developing countries, still lacks data from many low-income countries, where household surveys are only implemented every five to ten years and often lack comprehensive questions about social protection. Indeed, household surveys often fail to capture good information on school meals and sometimes lack relevant questions entirely. In fragile or conflict-affected countries, humanitarian assistance often replaces government-led social protection, and international organizations typically lead data collection efforts. Data can only be useful for policymakers, decision-makers and the general public when standardized and easily comparable. A single system is needed to show all government spending on social assistance across sectors. School meal programs deliver exceptional returns. They rank among the most cost-effective education interventions and act as vital social protection programs, covering 10 to 20% of annual food costs for the poorest families and creating millions of jobs—most for women—when scaled globally. Christian Bodewig Practice Manager, Social Protection and Jobs, World Bank Where better data can take us in future “School feeding programs are an investment in food and nutrition security, for generations to come. Including this data in the Global Food and Nutrition Security Dashboard is essential as school meal programs are one of the largest social safety nets and have an explicit objective to increase food and nutrition security. Now users of the dashboard can identify gaps in both food security and school feeding coverage for a holistic picture,” according to Marianne Grosclaude, Practice Manager, Agriculture and Food, World Bank. Looking forward, governments and partners must work together to fill crucial and persistent data gaps, coordinate on various forms of data and boost investment in school meals programs – if we want to make a true investment in human capital and in tomorrow’s children. “ School meal programs deliver exceptional returns. They rank among the most cost-effective education interventions and act as vital social protection programs , covering 10 to 20 percent of annual food costs for the poorest families and creating millions of jobs—most for women—when scaled globally,” said Christian Bodewig, Practice Manager, Social Protection and Jobs, World Bank. "As Belize has a new school meal program, we find it valuable to learn about other programs in our region. We are happy to share our data for the global survey to contribute to global learning on school feeding," said the Global Survey of School Meal Programs Focal Point in Belize. Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×