Bringing Bangladeshi Migrant Workers Home from Libya --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Bringing Bangladeshi Migrant Workers Home from Libya April 26, 2011 This page in: English Français العربية Español Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Returning Home April 26, 2011 - When the current conflict in Libya began in February 2011, many of the migrant workers were left to fend for themselves. The World Bank is helping restore the lives of Bangladeshi migrant workers escaping the ongoing conflict in Libya. Supporting the Return and Livelihood Restoration of Migrant Workers Libya had approximately 70,000-80,000 Bangladeshi workers before the current crisis, constituting the majority of the South Asian workers in the country. Remittances from this group were $1.5 million in 2010. Bangladesh has an estimated 6 million workers abroad , accounting for close to 4% of its population . The majority of Bangladeshi migrants work in the Middle East and North Africa and are mostly employed laborers, particularly in the construction sector. In 2009, remittance inflows were equivalent to about 12% of its economy and are among the largest and most stable source of foreign exchange making a noticeable developmental impact. Although promised decent wages, some left almost empty handed and in debt after paying thousands of dollars to agencies that sent them there. Because of this, many are unable to afford their passage back home. With the assistance of the International Organization for Migration (IOM), close to 30,000 had been repatriated by April 13, 2011. It is estimated that between 35,000-45,000 Bangladeshi workers remain stranded in Libya . As of April 13th, around 1,000 were still in camps such as Ra' Ajdir on the Tunisian-Libran border awaiting repatriation. There is a continuing daily inflow of new refugees and given the ongoing military action in Libya, a further surge of refugees could be expected. The majority of these workers are poor, and many have lost their possessions during their trek to the border. Therefore, many are not able to arrange or pay for their own transportation back to their home countries. Carrying all their possessions on their backs, many trudged through the desert towards the borders of neighboring countries trying to avoid robbery, gunfire and having to scrounge for food. The $40 million World Bank supported Repatriation and Livelihood Restoration for Migrant Workers Project will finance part of the the cost of transport returnees and provide a one-time $775 cash grant upon arrival in Bangladesh to support their immediate needs while helping returning workers seek available employment opportunities at home and abroad to commence the process of livelihood restoration. “ The crisis has created a very serious situation requiring humanitarian support by the international community ,” Bernice Van Bronkhorst, Project Team Leader said. “ For those who have only recently migrated, this crisis has not only rendered them penniless but heavily indebted. The project is designed to help them get back on their feet.” RELATED WORLD BANK Social Investment Program Additional Financing for Floods 2007 Bangladesh Padma Multipurpose Bridge Project Bangladesh South Asia Libya Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.