A Roadmap for Offshore Wind in Romania Who We Are News Infographic September 27, 2024 A Roadmap for Offshore Wind in Romania Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina The Offshore Wind Roadmap for Romania provides strategic analysis and outlines a realistic vision for the development of a successful offshore wind industry. Backed by a good wind resource, well-equipped port facilities, proven steel-based supply chain and skilled local workforce, offshore wind power offers Romania a large-scale domestic source of clean energy. The emerging offshore wind industry also presents new opportunities for long-term jobs and holds potential to bolster economic growth across a prospective Black Sea regional market for renewables. The roadmap highlights two scenarios for Romania to meet its future electricity needs through offshore wind development. The low and high growth scenarios provide comprehensive analysis of the technical, economic, environmental, social, employment, and financing aspects of establishing the country’s offshore wind market. The roadmap was produced as part of the project ‘Internal energy market and energy transition in Romania’ which received technical support from the European Commission’s Directorate General for Structural Reform Support (DG REFORM). The project was funded by the European Union via the Technical Support Instrument and was implemented by the World Bank and International Finance Corporation (IFC), with the support of DG REFORM and in collaboration with the Government of Romania. This study is part of a series of offshore wind roadmaps under the joint Energy Sector Management Assistance Program-International Finance Corporation (ESMAP-IFC) Offshore Wind Development Program. RELATED DOWNLOAD THE REPORT: Offshore Wind Roadmap for Romania PRESS RELEASE: Roadmap for Romania: Building a new Offshore Wind Industry in the Black Sea Energy Sector Management Assistance Program This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×