Strategic Framework: Finance --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Strategic Framework: Finance November 10, 2009 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> STORY HIGHLIGHTS The Framework will help the World Bank Group - IDA, IBRD, MIGA, and IFC - provide better support to their clients in developing countries It will facilitate both growth objectives and poverty reduction goals while recognizing the added costs and risks of climate change The Framework is based on six action areas, each addressing both adaptation and mitigation Development and Climate Change: A Strategic Framework for the World Bank Group was adopted during the October 2008 Annual Meetings. Recognizing the primacy of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) process, the Framework will help IDA , IBRD , MIGA and IFC provide better support to their clients in developing countries. It will facilitate both growth objectives and poverty reduction goals while recognizing the added costs and risks of climate change. The Framework will also facilitate new economic opportunities that will arise from the development of global climate policies. Climate risk management and adaptation is a top priority as developing countries and the poorest communities are likely to suffer earliest and the most. The Framework will guide the specific strategies and business plans of IFC, MIGA and World Bank regions and climate sensitive sectors, such as agriculture and natural resources, water, energy and health. The Framework is based on six action areas, each addressing both adaptation and mitigation: Support climate actions in country-led development processes; Mobilize additional concessional and innovative finance; Facilitate the development of market-based financing mechanisms; Leverage private sector resources; Support accelerated development and deployment of new technologies; and Step-up policy research, knowledge and capacity building. Progress on Development and Climate Change at the World Bank Country Impacts Where it Counts As a result of the Framework, over 60% of Country Assistance Strategies in fiscal year 2009 address climate-related issues. The SFDCC promotes work with the other MDBs in assisting countries in incorporating adaptation and mitigation programs into their development plans. It focuses on rolling out innovative financial instruments and building new partnerships. Mobilizing Finance for Climate Action SFDCC stresses the need for working towards closing the gap in knowledge, experience and finance between adaptation and mitigation. The WBG believes that adaptation is at the centre of its support to the developing countries. Supports is provided to client countries through innovative financing in the form of lending, grants, guarantees, equity stakes to support low-carbon growth. Knowledge Sharing and Policy Research To bridge the knowledge gap on the impacts of climate change, the Bank Group has made an effort to support client countries in assessing climate change risks. The rich body of work also informs the process of international negotiations. RELATED WORLD BANK Development and Climate Change: A Strategic Framework for the World Bank Group (SFDCC) SFDCC: Technical Report SFDCC: Progress Report Development Committee Meeting Paper Development Committee Communique Climate Change and the World Bank Climate Change Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.