Design & Implementation: Economic and Social Analysis --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Understanding Poverty Topics Community-Driven Development BRIEF Design & Implementation: Economic and Social Analysis June 6, 2013 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Indonesia: National Program for Community Empowerment Mandiri (PNPM) Social and economic analyses are complementary to each other and provide critical inputs to project design and appraisal process. Economic analysis helps determine, ex-ante, whether a project contributes to a society’s or a country’s welfare. Given that Community-Driven Development (CDD)-type interventions are poverty alleviation mechanisms, it is important to determine whether CDD projects have the institutional capacity and the processes and methodologies required to assess each project that is submitted to the institution and whether CDD projects have an impact on poverty alleviation, as measured by increases in income (poverty line) and/or consumption and improved access to basic needs. When performing economic analysis, it is important to distinguish between two levels of economic analysis: analysis of a Bank-financed program, and analysis of program-financed subprojects. Social analysis involves examining the socio-cultural, institutional, historical and political context of Bank-financed operations. Social analysis is a process that aims to identify the social dimensions of projects, as well as analyze the different stakeholder perspectives and priorities. Social analysis not only allows the Bank to understand the opportunities and constraints, and the likely social impacts associated with a project, but also provides spaces to incorporate stakeholders' views, establish participatory processes and inform the design of strategies for inclusion, cohesion and accountability. Understanding the social implications of projects and policies is critical in ensuring that the proposed project or policy contributes to equitable and sustainable development. The analysis can provide insight into social diversity and gender, institutions, rules and behavior, stakeholder dynamics, participation concerns and social risks. RELATED Social Analysis at the World Bank --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.