World Bank’s New Division Director for Bangladesh and Bhutan Starts Tomorrow Who We Are News PRESS RELEASE June 30, 2025 World Bank’s New Division Director for Bangladesh and Bhutan Starts Tomorrow Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Dhaka, June 30, 2025 — Jean Pesme starts tomorrow as the World Bank’s new Division Director for Bangladesh and Bhutan. Pesme brings a wide range of development experience to the job, including a track record in promoting economic growth and development, and making financial systems more resilient and inclusive. A French national and an engineer by training, Pesme joined the World Bank in 2003 as a Senior Infrastructure Specialist and has since held leadership positions within the World Bank Group, including its private sector arm, IFC. He has extensive experience in working on financial sector issues, notably in the Middle East and North Africa. Prior to taking this assignment, Pesme served as the Global Director, Finance and led the World Bank’s work to promote the development of sound, stable, sustainable, and inclusive financial systems. He also led the World Bank’s Financial Stability and Integrity global team, which assists countries in building and restoring robust and resilient financial systems operating with integrity, transparency and in compliance with international standards. “Bangladesh has unique development experiences to share with the world. This is a country that has repeatedly surprised the world with its development innovation, determination, and resilience to tackle pressing development and economic challenges. I look forward to working closely with the government and people of Bangladesh to help the country maintain robust and inclusive development and growth trajectory,” said Pesme . “Going forward, we are harnessing the full strength of the One World Bank Group by collaborating closely with our private sector arms, IFC and MIGA to mobilize private sector growth and investment, leading to creation of quality jobs.” In his role as the World Bank Division Director for Bangladesh and Bhutan, Pesme will lead the strategic and policy dialogue to shape World Bank engagement in Bangladesh and Bhutan, supporting the countries to achieve their respective development goals. He will also ensure that the country and regional programs are aligned with the World Bank Group's vision and mission and anchored in country priorities, while emphasizing selectivity, speed, scale, impact, and partnerships. The World Bank was among the first development partners to support Bangladesh following its independence. Since then, the World Bank has committed over $46 billion in grants, interest-free, and concessional credits to Bangladesh. Currently, Bangladesh has the largest IDA program of World Bank with an ongoing commitment of $15.4 billion. Contacts In Dhaka Mehrin A. Mahbub mmahbub@worldbank.org In Washington Elena Karaban ekaraban@worldbank.org RELATED The World Bank in Bangladesh World Bank Bangladesh on Facebook Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×