As Elections Approach, Guineans Unite in their Quest for Peace --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY As Elections Approach, Guineans Unite in their Quest for Peace June 2, 2010 This page in: English Français Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> CONAKRY, June 2, 2010 — Guineans will go to the polls on June 27 to elect their president. Twenty-four candidates have been cleared to participate in this historic contest, the first open, democratic election in the country’s history. Since the start of the electoral campaign on May 17, Conakry and other regions have been in election mode. The number of political rallies is being stepped up by various campaigns in a bid to garner as many votes as possible. Arrangements have been made for registered candidates and their parties to each have four minutes of radio and television air time, synchronized with rural and community radios. So the date of June 27 seems immutable. After a year of unrest marked by the stadium massacres on September 28, 2009 and the attempted assassination of military junta leader Captain Moussa Dadis Camara, Guineans have resolutely turned their attention to elections. However, the issue of security is weighing on the minds of the transitional authorities and many Guineans. Concerns over several possible pockets of tension during the election have prompted a number of youth associations, artists, and NGOs to band together in a bid to ensure peaceful elections. Under the slogan “Guinea First - Guinea United in its Quest for Peace,” three NGOs, namely, Cercle de Réflexion et d’Action de la Nation (CRAN), Forum des Jeunes de Guinée (FOJEG), and Amis de la République have joined forces. With donor support, they have mobilized more than 30 artists from all regions and ethnicities of Guinea to produce a series of pro-peace messages entitled “I love my country,” a timely message during this potentially volatile election period. In addition to composing a peace song, members of this group have secured a television spot with the participation of various political leaders and transitional authorities, in which they appeal to their fellow citizens to cast their votes in a climate of peace, harmony, and brotherhood. After successfully participating in a 72-hour study session, the group plans to organize an awareness-building motorcade to travel across the different neighborhoods and areas of Conakry where pockets of tension may exist, and to hold a massive Peace Concert on June 25, two days prior to the election. Everyone is therefore working to achieve peace, a prerequisite for development. The peace campaign officially launched on June 1, 2010. RELATED WORLD BANK On the Chief Economist’s Blog Guinea Home Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.