Online Consultations: Kosovo Systematic Country Diagnostic Update 2021 Where We Work Kosovo This page in: EN --> dropdown Српски This page in: _ English Српски --> dropdown BRIEF June 30, 2021 Online Consultations: Kosovo Systematic Country Diagnostic Update 2021 Email Print Tweet Share Share LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Photo: World Bank The World Bank Group is preparing a Systematic Country Diagnostic (SCD) Update for Kosovo . The SCD update will inform the Country Partnership Framework (CPF) between Kosovo and the World Bank Group, and will support the ongoing dialogue between the World Bank Group and the government. The primary objective of this SCD update is to identify the most critical constraints facing Kosovo as it strives to recover from the COVID-19 crisis, as well as the advantages it can leverage to accelerate progress on poverty reduction and shared prosperity. The SCD will reflect the best possible analysis and draw upon all available and relevant evidence. It will not be limited to areas or sectors in which the World Bank Group is currently active or in which the World Bank Group anticipates government interest. To support the preparation of the 2021 Kosovo SCD Update, the World Bank Group is soliciting input from a range of key stakeholders. In order to gather a broad set of views and opinions about the main priorities for Kosovo, a series of virtual consultation meetings with the government, the parliament, the private sector, civil society organizations, academia, and development partners will take place in the coming weeks. This presentation summarizes the initial analysis and contains guiding questions for the consultations. We would greatly appreciate your help in completing a short questionnaire, which will help ensure that all views are given proper consideration. Kindly complete this form by September 15, 2021 . You can download the questionnaire form and email it to us after filling out. For comments, questions, and suggestions, please contact Mjellma Rrecaj at mrrecaj@worldbank.org or +383-49-247-247. For updates on the process of consultations, please follow the Facebook page of the World Bank in Kosovo. Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->