ECA Regional Flagship Reports --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work Europe and Central Asia brief ECA Regional Flagship Reports This page in: English Русский Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> The World Bank's Europe and Central Asia regional flagship reports share with a broad audience the results of World Bank research on development policy, including reports that analyze trends and key issues in the region. The reports are designed to contribute to the debate on appropriate public policies for developing economies. Building Resilient Migration Systems in the Mediterranean Region: Lessons From COVID-19 JUNE 2022 | This report presents evidence on the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on migration in the Mediterranean region and explores whether mobility can still play a central role following the COVID-19 outbreak. Toward a New Social Contract: Taking on Distributional Tensions SEPTEMBER 2018 | This report calls for a fundamental rethinking of policies to ease the growing divide between those who benefit from new economic opportunities and those who are left behind in an ever-more flexible economy. Critical Connections: Promoting Economic Growth and Resilience SEPTEMBER 2018 | The report analyzes the impact of different types of connectivity on growth to help policy makers maximize the economic benefits of these connections across Europe and Central Asia. Reaping Digital Dividends: Leveraging the Internet for Development MARCH 2017 | As the economies in the region are not taking full advantage of the internet to foster economic growth and job creation, the report identifies the main bottlenecks and provides policy recommendations tailored to economies. Risks and Returns: Managing Financial Trade-Offs for Inclusive Growth DECEMBER 2016 | Striking the right balance across all dimensions of financial development is crucial for achieving and sustaining inclusive growth. This report provides a robust framework for policy makers to set priorities and manage policy tradeoffs. Golden Aging: Prospects for Healthy, Active, and Prosperous Aging JUNE 2015 | The Europe and Central Asia region has among the oldest populations in the world. Europe, in particular, is approaching the end of a demographic transition toward population stabilization, and Central Asia, although still younger, is following quickly. Shared Prosperity: Paving the Way in Europe and Central Asia APRIL 2014 | The report says that countries in the region have done relatively well in ensuring that their populations have shared in overall prosperity, but progress has been uneven and its long-term sustainability is under question. Diversified Development: Making the Most of Natural Resources in Eurasia FEBRUARY 2014 | This report is about the twelve countries of the former Soviet Union (Eurasia). About 85% of the region’s economic output is in six resource-rich economies. EARLIER REPORTS June 2014 Back to Work: Growing with Jobs in Europe and Central Asia January 2014 The Inverting Pyramid: Pension Systems Facing Demographic Challenges in Europe and Central Asia July 2013 Getting Better: Improving Health System Outcomes in Europe and Central Asia June 2013 Balancing Act: Cutting Energy Subsidies While Protecting Affordability April 2013 Growing Green: The Economic Benefits of Climate Action January 2013 Energy Efficiency: Lessons Learned from Success Stories April 2012 Golden Growth: Restoring the Lustre of the European Economic Model October 2009 Turmoil at Twenty: Recession, Recovery, and Reform in Central and Eastern Europe and the Former Soviet Union June 2009 Adapting to Climate Change in Eastern Europe and Central Asia June 2008 Innovation, Inclusion, and Integration: From Transition to Convergence in Eastern Europe and the Former Soviet Union May 2008 Unleashing Prosperity: Productivity Growth in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union January 2007 From Red to Gray: The Third Transition of Aging Populations in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union OFFICE OF THE CHIEF ECONOMIST The Office of the Chief Economist provides guidance on strategic priorities and technical quality of economic analysis in the Europe and Central Asia (ECA) region. LEARN MORE Chief Economist, Europe and Central Asia Ivailo Izvorski Ivailo Izvorski is the Chief Economist for the Europe and Central Asia region. View more information » ECA CHIEF ECONOMIST EVENTS ECA Talks ECA Lectures ECA Academy ECA Research Newsletter Subscribe | Archived Issues --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.