Updates - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Updates Previous 1 … 3 4 5 … 14 Next A Maritime Topic for a Maritime Nation October 19, 2016 By Marin Kress We are excited to launch the Maritime Topic on Data.gov, a place where the diverse datasets… Continued Harvesting Grain Data October 19, 2016 By Data.gov admins Author: Marin Kress, Research Scientist, Engineer Research and Development Center, USACE This Grain Transportation Report: Rail Deliveries to Port dataset from the USDA provides the total number of rail carloads used in weekly grain shipments traveling to ports in five… Continued A Decade of Shipment Tonnage and Value Summaries October 19, 2016 By Data.gov admins The U.S. Maritime Administration has produced a summary of annual tonnage and values for shipments moving through groups of ports across U.S. Customs Districts. The file includes a list of the individual ports included in the 38 unique Custom Districts.… Continued Trends in Recreational Boating Safety, U.S. Coast Guard Recreational Boating Safety Statistics Tool October 19, 2016 By Data.gov admins The U.S. Coast Guard is responsible for investigating accidents on coastal and inland waters and compiling the associated accident statistics. The USCG Boating Safety Resource Center has an online query tool for users to search and filter recreational boating accident… Continued Your Open Data Story August 8, 2016 By Data.gov admins Open government data enables us to create tools that deliver insights on topics ranging from education and health to entrepreneurship and foreign aid. Families reviewing college options can compare tuition, graduation rates, and potential post-graduation salaries, using the College Scorecard–… Continued Introducing New Rural Housing Data from USDA July 26, 2016 By Data.gov admins For the first time, USDA's Rural Housing Service is publicly releasing data across every program area in which the agency provides loans, guarantees, and grants — multifamily housing, single-family housing, and community facilities. Continued 7 Years of Open Data May 20, 2016 By Data.gov admins In its seventh year as home to the U.S. Government's open data, Data.gov continues to serve millions of people worldwide, from researchers and civic hackers, to businesses and citizens. These users have created apps, launched new products and services, and… Continued Data USA: Visualizing Government Data May 13, 2016 By Data.gov admins Much has been written about open government data and its contribution to developing consumer applications such as Zoc Doc and Spot Crime. The data resources on Data.gov can also help researchers, policymakers, and planners make better informed decisions through the… Continued Tribal Nations Maps October 28, 2015 The Tribal Nations Map Gallery includes PDF wall maps and interactive maps from federal partners and intertribal groups to showcase climate resilience efforts of tribes, Alaska Natives, and other diverse communities nationwide. Continued Tribal Nations Framing Questions October 23, 2015 Tribal Nations 1. Data sharing between Tribal Nations and non-tribal partners must ensure that there is free, prior, and informed consent of tribes and traditional knowledge holders participating in the collaboration, and tribally-led protections for traditional knowledges... Continued Previous 1 … 3 4 5 … 14 Next About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov