Xavier Devictor: Climate Change Is Happening --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News OPINION Xavier Devictor: Climate Change Is Happening June 12, 2013 This page in: English Polski Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Xavier Devictor, Country Manager for Poland and the Baltic Countries Rzeczpospolita Poland is sinking. Paris is already under water. London will be next. This is not science fiction, but the reality on Christmas Island in the South Pacific. The village named “Poland” (after a Polish engineer who enhanced palm trees cultivation) is being gradually submerged as a consequence of climate change. Other settlements on the island are equally affected: “Paris” disappeared a few years ago and “London” is now threatened. Climate change is happening. If all actions already committed to are effectively implemented, it is likely to warm up by another 2 o C or so. If no action is taken, a warming of as much as 4 o C could occur as early as 2060.These numbers may not sound that large, but they will pose enormous challenges. While shorter winters may not be such a bad thing in Poland, these changes would have an impact on food production, water availability, and human health. Large-scale disruptions would follow: a redefinition of economic and trade systems, unprecedented migrations away from flooded areas, and eventually threats to peace. Is this science-fiction? Nearly 360 million city-dwellers would be threatened if sea levels were to rise by 1.5 meter, most of them in countries which are too poor to cope with such crisis. Drought-affected areas would increase from 15 percent of global cropland today to around 44 percent. It is hard to imagine that such developments will not have economic and political consequences. In fact the magnitude of the changes associated with a 4oC warming are such that they can simply not be modeled. This has been classified as a “national security threat” by the US Pentagon. Such a world must be avoided. The good news is that it can be avoided if we take adequate action. And Poland has a particular role to play in this endeavor, as the organizer of the next international forum on climate change, which is scheduled to take place in Warsaw in 2013– and as a country which has been advocating for a pragmatic pathway, between enthusiasts and skeptics. We need to acknowledge that avoiding uncontrolled climate changes is a global responsibility. There has been too much horse-trading in the negotiations process, and not enough efforts to rise to the challenge, and make a collective commitment. No country will gain from the upcoming disruptions. All have to work together to reduce the risks. But we also need to be pragmatic, to acknowledge that some of the required changes will benefit some countries more than others, and to put in place instruments and incentives that can effectively level the playing field. We need to take action, not to seek excuses in others’ inaction. We need to pay attention to the beam that is in our own eye before looking for the speck in our brother’s eye. Mitigation has a cost, but it can also provide economic opportunities. In fact, a recent report of the World Bank concluded that for Poland the short-term costs would be outweighed by the medium-term benefits. To take just one example, huge gains could be made just by improving energy efficiency. We need to recognize that each of us has a role to play. As citizens, we can steer the political debate in our country and make leaders take the right decisions. As consumers, we can adapt our behaviors to reduce the pressure on the environment. This is a broad agenda, one that skeptics will call naïve. But the alternative is such that naivety may well be our best option. RELATED FEATURE STORY Climate Change Report Warns of Dramatically Warmer World This Century World Bank in Poland Media Contacts Warsaw Anna Kowalczyk Tel : +48 22 520 8000 akowalczyk@worldbank.org Poland Europe and Central Asia Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.