East Asia Pacific Region Urban Sanitation Review: Actions Needed --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work East Asia Pacific publication East Asia Pacific Region Urban Sanitation Review: Actions Needed Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> View infographic : The High Cost of Sanitation in East Asia Pacific January 20, 2014 East Asia Pacific Region Urban Sanitation Review: Actions Needed looks at how countries in the region – and particularly Indonesia, the Philippines and Vietnam – can expand and improve urban sanitation services in an inclusive and sustainable way. About 2.5 billion people worldwide lack adequate sanitation – that’s one third of the global population – and 660 million of them live in East Asia and the Pacific. Inadequate sanitation takes a tremendous toll on the quality of peoples’ lives, the environment, and the economy. Without effective urban sanitation, there is a high risk of epidemic diseases such as cholera, as well as the chronic effects of poor health from diarrhea and even death. Inadequate sanitation pollutes water supplies, rendering them unsuitable for drinking, irrigation, and other purposes. The economic impact of inadequate sanitation is substantial. Each year, poor quality sanitation costs Vietnam the equivalent of 1.3 percent of GDP, the Philippines 1.5 percent of GDP, and Indonesia 2.3 percent of GDP. To sustain economic growth, East Asia’s cities need to address significant gaps in their sanitation services. Substantial financing is needed to develop infrastructure and provide sustainable services for urban sanitation. Investment levels of at least US$250 per person are needed per year for the next 15 years. Returns on sanitation investments are also high. Worldwide, every US dollar invested in sanitation yields $5.50 in return in terms of economic benefit. In East Asia, this rate of return is even higher, with every US dollar spent yielding $8 in return, according to the World Health Organization. East Asia Pacific Get the report Full version Policy brief (pdf) Country Study - Indonesia Country Study - Philippines Country Study - Vietnam RELATED PRESS RELEASE Unlocking The Many Benefits of Sustainable Urban Sanitation Services in The Region And in Vietnam INFOGRAPHIC The High Cost of Sanitation in East Asia Pacific --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.