Saudi Arabia Where We Work This page in: English العربية This page in: English العربية --> The World Bank In Saudi Arabia The World Bank’s partnership with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia started in 1975. The Kingdom supports the World Bank Group efforts in its mission of ending extreme poverty and boosting shared prosperity. Home Overview Press Release A New Regional Hub in Riyadh The Riyadh Hub brings the World Bank’s leadership closer to country teams, clients and regional partners. A New Regional Hub in Riyadh Press Release A Global Knowledge Hub in Riyadh The new hub aims to drive the global exchange of ideas, experiences, and best practices to tackle the world’s most pressing development A Global Knowledge Hub in Riyadh Report Empowering Women in Technical and Vocational Education and Training This report takes stock of the achievements of Saudi Arabia in enabling women to participate in skills development, identifies remaining challenges, and presents international best practices. Empowering Women in Technical and Vocational Education and Training Saudi Arabia At-A-Glance The World Bank has had a strong partnership with Saudi Arabia for over 50 years. The Government of Saudi Arabia has mobilized the Bank’s global knowledge and development experience through reimbursable technical assistance programs. Overview Data Data Analysis --> Saudi Arabia’s Digital and Distance Education This report identifies the strengths of the response to the pandemic in education and the opportunities for continued improvement. View All Projects Reports Blogs View All Blogs View All Blogs Experts --> Safaa El Tayeb El-Kogali Division Director for the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), Middle East & North Africa, Afghanistan & Pakistan (MENAAP) Safaa El Tayeb El-Kogali Stay Connected News & Events View All Multimedia What's New View All What's New Latest Events View All Events In Depth Feb 08, 2022 Saudi Arabia’s Digital and Distance Education This report examines Saudi Arabia’s journey to digital and distance education following the COVID-19 pandemic and identifies the strengths of the response to the pandemic in K-12 education and the opportunities for ... Saudi Arabia’s Digital and Distance Education PeopleImages.com - #1623778 Tracing Labor Market Outcomes in Saudi Arabia This paper exploits a rich dataset from various administrative sources to study short- and medium-term labor market outcomes of vocational education and training graduates in Saudi Arabia. Tracing Labor Market Outcomes in Saudi Arabia Ministry of Education - Kuwait Paving the Way for Women in GCC This engagement note in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) aims to identify entry points that respond to the strategic goals and country development priorities announced by GCC member states. This note provides an ... Paving the Way for Women in GCC Stay connected, sign up for our: World Bank Group Weekly Updates Email Alerts on country news, projects, and research First Name I agree with the terms of the Privacy Notice and consent to my personal data being processed, to the extent necessary, to subscribe to the selected updates. Please enter a valid email address. Please enter a valid email address. World Bank Group Weekly Updates We’ve just sent you an email. Please check your inbox and confirm your email address. World Bank Group Weekly Updates You are already subscribed to this newsletter. Email Alerts on country news, projects, and research We’ve just sent you an email. Please check your inbox and confirm your email address. Email Alerts on country news, projects, and research You are already subscribed to this newsletter. Work With Us In Home Jobs Procurement Report Fraud or Corruption Additional Resources Related The Office of the Executive Director Country Office Contacts Riyadh wbgcc@worldbank.org This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×