Meet: Kacie Sampson, Treasury Junior Analyst '20 Who We Are News FEATURE STORY November 11, 2021 Meet: Kacie Sampson, Treasury Junior Analyst '20 Email Print Tweet Share Share LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Meet Kacie Kacie Sampson (she/her) is a Junior Analyst on the Investor Relations and Sustainable Finance team in the Capital Markets and Investments Department. She is an American national and graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in International Relations and Economics at American University and is interested in sustainable finance. She wants to deepen her understanding of environmental, social and governance (ESG) integration and pursue a Master of Sustainable Finance after the Junior Analyst Program. Update: Kacie Sampson completed the Treasury Junior Analyst Program in 2022. She began at a Master's Program in Sustainability & International Management Master's Degree Program at Sciences Po in Paris. What’s your typical day as a Treasury Junior Analyst ? Prepare presentations and press releases to raise investor awareness of development topics, including the importance of nutrition, gender equality, health, and preserving water and oceans. Attend investor meetings and track progress on engagements. Engage with environmental, social, and governance (ESG) research firms on methodology and scoring and improve information disclosure. Assist in preparing external materials, including IBRD and IDA’s investor presentations, the Sustainable Development Bond and Green Bond Impact Report, and the Investor Newsletter. What is your greatest challenge and success as a Junior Analyst? My first few months at the Treasury were challenging as I got used to new financial terms, the World Bank operational structure, and finding my place in the department. Now, I am proud of my team's work to increase the World Bank’s (IBRD) ESG scores. This work allowed me to engage with external partners and give a presentation on our progress to colleagues. What do you appreciate most about the Junior Analyst program? I believe in my work because it supports the World Bank’s mandate to eliminate extreme poverty and boost shared prosperity. My work also challenges me to become a better financial professional. The Junior Analyst Program gives me access to many learning opportunities and a vast network of staff who are passionate about their work. Name your favorite aspect of the World Bank. There are countless ways to learn and get involved at the World Bank. Since joining the Treasury, I have participated in the World Bank’s mentorship program, the Youth to Youth (Y2Y) community, and Treasury’s Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Team. There are many trainings available to staff and courses on the Open Learning Campus, the Bank’s internal learning platform. Colleagues are also willing to share their knowledge. These sources are critical for professional development, especially for young professionals. "I appreciate interacting with people from all over the world, which has made me a more effective communicator. It also exposes me to diverse perspectives and interesting conversations both inside and out of the office." Kacie Sampson Treasury Junior Analyst '20 MULTIMEDIA click VIDEO An Experience Like No Other: The World Bank Treasury Summer Internship What has been the involvement of senior colleagues with your work? In general, there are fewer young professionals at the World Bank, so our cohort is highly visible and engaged. Junior Analysts directly manage Treasury Talks, a monthly speaker series of prominent scholars and practitioners, which allows us to work directly with the Vice President & Treasurer. Why did you apply to the Summer Internship Program? My previous work experience did not draw upon my economics degree, so I applied to the Summer Internship Program to strengthen my technical skills and apply my international finance studies. While I always knew I wanted to work in international development, the Summer Internship Program refined my interests and developed a career plan. How did the Treasury Summer Internship prepare you for this position? The internship exposed me to all departments to gain a holistic view. I later developed a complete picture of Treasury’s work as a Junior Analyst. What are your goals after your two years as Junior Analyst? I plan to pursue a Master of Sustainable Finance and continue working in a multilateral development bank. I want to further my understanding of how financial products meet development needs in emerging economies. How has the Junior Analyst Program prepared you to achieve these goals? The Junior Analyst program has been fundamental in shaping my career by exposing me to sides of development and finance that I did not know before. I have strengthened my soft skills in writing, communication, and presentation while growing my expertise in sustainable finance. RELATED WORLD BANK World Bank Treasury Student & Graduate Careers Api Api Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->