Rural Punjab Gets Improved Water Supplies --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Rural Punjab Gets Improved Water Supplies February 27, 2014 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Today, Punjab leads the way among India’s states in bringing safe water to its rural people. Over a million village homes now receive safe water supply - more than in any other part of the country. Harbhajan Singh, Project Implementation Unit, Punjab STORY HIGHLIGHTS More rural households in Punjab have piped water connections than in any other part of India. Over 1 million households now receive safe water supply. Given the deteriorating quality of ground water, the state is exploring the feasibility of tapping its abundant rivers and canals for household water supply. When Dayal Singh, 67, was hospitalised with jaundice a few years ago, he knew the cause was contaminated drinking water from the shallow wells and hand pumps in his native Paprala village in Punjab’s Roopnagar district. Today Singh no longer worries about the quality of water he receives. With a World Bank-supported project his family gets clean, treated water throughout the day from a tap right inside their home. Singh is happy to pay for the water his family uses. A meter has been installed in every home and a household’s water bills average between Rs 70 to 120 a month. Harbhajan Singh, Project Implementation Unit, Punjab " "Nothing new is easy, but I knew the water supply system was for our good and I took it upon myself to make it a reality." " Balbir Singh 81 year old villager Demand for more modern lifestyles A number of rivers flow through the green and fertile farmlands of Punjab, yet many villages face acute shortages of drinking water. Demand for water in the state is soaring for two primary reasons: a growing population and people adopting more modern, water-intensive lifestyles. Many families have relatives abroad and are familiar with the better lifestyles they enjoy. As rising demand constrains water supply, the Punjab government has made concerted efforts to provide rural households with safe, treated water within their homes. Punjab leads the way In 2006, when the project first started, most villages received only intermittent water supply, and almost a fifth had no water supply system at all. Today, Punjab leads the way among India’s states in bringing safe water to its rural people. Over a million households now receive safe water supply, and more than 40 villages have round-the-clock water supply. In fact, more rural households in Punjab have piped water connections than in any other part of the country. Most village homes receive over 40 litres of water per capita per day (lpcd) - an amount generally sufficient for household use. Over time, the state plans to increase that amount to 70 lpcd or more. Given the absence of NGOs in Punjab, government engineers worked closely with residents to implement the program. The engineers credit the program’ssuccess to Punjab’s forward-looking rural communities, and particularly their strong interest in improving their water supply. Balbir Singh, an eighty-one year old retired army man, even came forward to lend money to poor families who were unable to pay their share. "Nothing new is easy,” Singh said, “but I knew the water supply system was for our good and I took it upon myself to make it a reality." Addressing the chemical contamination of groundwater The next critical challenge for the state will be solving the issue of chemically contaminated groundwater and ensuring the sustainability of water sources. In Punjab, as elsewhere in India, groundwater remains the most common source of water for both farms and households, and water tables are falling. Alarmingly, the groundwater is frequently contaminated with arsenic and fluoride and, in six districts, with heavy metals such as uranium. Recently, a study commissioned by Punjab’s school of public health revealedthat in some areas Punjab’s groundwater is highly polluted with untreated or partially treated sewage, effluents, and run-off from farms, industries and hospitals.. Furthermore, some health issues have been attributed to the poor water quality, includinghigher average abortion rates among women living in areas where water pollution levels are high. In the most afflicted areas, public-private models are helping filter out harmful substances through a process known as reverse osmosis, and every district is being equipped with a water-testing laboratory. In addition, a state-of-the-art laboratory is being set-up at Mohali near the state capital of Chandigarh, to test for harmful substances. Moreover, the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) from Mumbai is actively involved in tackling the issue of uranium contamination. Exploring surface water sources The state government has started to map Punjab’s extensive water resources and plans to study the feasibility of sourcing drinking water from tapping surface water sources.. Unlike groundwater, flowing water sources are largely free from chemical contamination. Going forward, Punjab’s rural water sector plans to “improve sanitation, place more communities in charge of their water supply schemes, ensure adequate volumes of water to rural households, and address the critical issue of water quality,” according to Srinivas Rao Podipireddy, World Bank project team leader. RELATED WORLD BANK Project Documents World Bank in India World Bank India on Facebook India South Asia Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.