Event | International Seminar on Trade (ISoT) – 2nd Edition Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events International Seminar on Trade (ISoT) – 2nd Edition Share Overview Call for Papers About the Organizers The Journal of International Economics , University of Geneva, the World Bank, and the Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR) invite you to participate of the Call for Papers for the second edition of the “International Seminar on Trade” (ISoT) on May 21-22, 2026 in Geneva, Switzerland. ISoT focuses on recent advances in empirical, theoretical, and quantitative international trade. For further details, please check the tab "Call for Papers". An agenda of the event is forthcoming. Submission deadline: Sunday 11 th January 2026 ISoT will focus on recent advances in empirical, theoretical, and quantitative international trade. We also welcome papers in closely related fields – including economic geography, development and industrialization; technology, innovation and digital transformation; climate change and the environment; macroeconomics and finance; economic resilience and crisis management; and labor, inequality and social impacts – if they include a significant international trade component. Submitted papers should be motivated by real-world questions and firmly grounded in policy-relevant empirical evidence. Submissions must not be under consideration for publication in another journal. By submitting to this call for papers, authors agree to allow the Journal of International Economics to consider their papers for publication in a special issue. The refereeing process will be overseen by two Guest Editors, who will be Isabelle Mejean (Sciences Po and CEPR) and Marc Melitz (Harvard University and CEPR). To submit your paper for consideration, please upload a PDF file by Sunday 11 January, 2026 , no later than 11:59 PM EST following the instructions below. If you know of a relevant paper by another researcher, please share this call with them. Paper Submissions How to submit Authors who already have a CEPR HUB profile can upload their submission by: 1. Going to https://hub.cepr.org/ and logging in 2. After you have logged in, go to https://hub.cepr.org/event/4950 3. Click on "Step 1: Apply" 4. Under "Apply to Attend" click "Yes" 5. Tick the boxes that apply to you 6. Tick "Would you like to submit a paper?", upload your paper and supply the requested information 7. Click "Submit form" to make the submission. Authors who do not have a CEPR HUB profile can upload their submission by: 1. Creating a new profile here https://hub.cepr.org/user/register 2. After you have logged in, go to https://hub.cepr.org/event/4950 3. Click on "Step 1: Apply" 4. Under "Apply to Attend" click "Yes" 5. Tick the boxes that apply to you 6. Tick "Would you like to submit a paper?", upload your paper and supply the requested information 7. Click "Submit form" to make the submission. For registration assistance, please contact Bao Khanh Le, Senior Events Officer at bkle@cepr.org Funding Only authors of accepted papers will be contacted, with decisions expected by mid-February. Travel and accommodation expenses for one co-author per accepted paper will be covered according to the organizing entities' travel guidelines. The details of these guidelines will be included in the decision notification letter. Organising committee Costas Arkolakis (Yale University and CEPR), Marcelo Olarreaga (University of Geneva), Monika Mrazova (University of Geneva and CEPR), Gianmarco Ottaviano (Bocconi University and CEPR), and Daria Taglioni (World Bank). Selection committee Erhan Artuc (World Bank), Paola Conconi (University of Oxford and CEPR), Eunhee Lee (Seoul National University), Monika Mrazova (University of Geneva and CEPR), Heiwai Tang (Hong Kong University), and Bob Rijkers (World Bank & Utrecht University). Guest Co-Editors of the JIE Special Issue Isabelle Mejean (Sciences Po and CEPR) and Marc Melitz (Harvard University and CEPR). Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×