Overview Kodi KoDi: Korea Digital Development Program HOME OVERVIEW RESOURCES Strategic Partners NEWS & EVENTS Overview The Korea Digital Development initiative (KoDi) was launched in July 2021 by the World Bank’s Digital Development Global Practice and the World Bank Group Korea Office. The program aims to help low- and middle-income countries in East Asia Pacific and beyond to accelerate digital transformation that is data-driven, secure, and green by sharing knowledge on recent reform practices and providing country-specific technical assistance. The initiative leverages the experience and best practices of Korea, as well as other advanced digital countries, to build data ecosystems, spur green digital innovation, and leverage the sizeable economic and social opportunities of data-driven digital transformation. As KoDi transitions into its second phase, the focus sharpens on scaling impact through artificial intelligence (AI) and advanced data technologies. By expanding its reach and deepening engagement, Phase II aims to strengthen digital governance, enhance cybersecurity, and address climate challenges using AI-driven solutions. KoDi is structured around three pillars that underpin inclusive, resilient, and sustainable digital transformation. To achieve its mandate, KoDi concentrates on generating relevant knowledge, including review of current practices in Korea and other advanced practices, analytical research, and capacity development, and providing operations support to the client countries through technical and analytical assistance. Pillar 1: Data and AI for Enhanced Digital Services KoDi’s emphasis is on strengthening foundational elements of digital data infrastructure—such as data governance, data hosting, and digital public infrastructure—to enable AI-driven improvements in digital government services. This pillar focuses on data governance, efficient data management, and advanced technologies to enhance civil services, resource management, and decision-making. click VIDEO Pillar 2: AI-driven Cyber Resilience KoDi focuses on leveraging artificial intelligence to detect threats early, respond in real time, and continuously adapt security measures. This approach helps build resilient IT architectures to protect critical infrastructure and operations from attacks and ensure quicker recovery. click VIDEO Pillar 3: Data and AI for Climate Action KoDi focuses on utilizing AI and advanced data analytics for climate mitigation and adaptation. This includes the use of key applications for climate modeling, real-time environmental monitoring, optimizing energy systems, and enhancing disaster management to support sustainable development and reduce carbon footprints. click VIDEO About The Program The Korea Digital Development program (KoDi) aims to help low-and middle-income countries to accelerate digital transformation that is data-driven, secure, and green. MULTIMEDIA click VIDEO About the Korea Digital Development Program (KoDi) Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->