Event | Manage Successful Field Research 2025 Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Manage Successful Field Research 2025 Share Register now for Manage Successful Field Research, a comprehensive course designed to build skills for high-quality field research. This hands-on course will be held in-person in Washington, DC, from June 9 to June 12, 2025 . Participants will gain practical skills for planning, implementing, and monitoring field research. Manage Successful Field Research will teach best practices for: Designing and managing data systems for field research Developing quality assurance strategies Monitoring implementation and providing real-time feedback Upholding research ethics, privacy, and reproducibility The Manage Successful Field Research course is ideal for staff and consultants working directly on field research projects, engaged in monitoring and evaluation, involved with primary data collection, or secondary data acquisition. Participants will engage in: Lectures & Panel Discussions – Learn best practices, common challenges, and emerging technologies Case Studies & Discussions – Analyze real-world scenarios and problem-solve with a diverse group of colleagues Hands-on Lab Sessions – Gain proficiency in software for survey programming and statistical analysis, with parallel tracks tailored to different preferences and skill levels. ORGANIZERS RELATED DIME Analytics works to improve the credibility, transparency, and reproducibility of development research across Bank units, clients, and the global research community. The team supports high quality research across the DIME portfolio, offers public trainings, and develops open-source tools. The Institute for Economic Development is a new initiative for global collaboration in tackling key challenges. It brings together think tanks, experts, researchers, and academics to exchange ideas, learn from one another, and access curated insights from the latest development research. DIME Analytics Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×