Updates - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Updates Previous 1 2 3 … 14 Next Hydrosurvey Data Archive for Federal Navigation Projects July 27, 2021 By Marin Kress The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) performs hydrographic surveys (hydrosurveys) for federal navigation projects around the U.S. Federal navigation projects include an estimated 25,000 miles of channels and form a key part of U.S. maritime infrastructure… Continued Rivers of Data – Inland Electronic Navigation Charts May 17, 2021 By Marin Kress Nautical charts provide critical information to mariners in support of safe navigation. Historically these charts have been printed and distributed on paper, but modern communications systems allow for electronic charts that are able to be updated as new information becomes… Continued Clean Air Practices at Ports – EPA Interactive Map April 13, 2021 By Marin Kress The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Ports Initiative works in collaboration with the port industry, communities, and all levels of government to improve environmental performance and increase economic prosperity. This effort helps people living and working near ports across the… Continued 2019 Port Performance Data from the U.S. DOT March 24, 2021 By Marin Kress The U.S. Department of Transportation's Port Performance Freight Statistics Program: Annual Reports to Congress provide summary statistics and detailed analysis for the Nation's largest container, tonnage, and dry bulk ports. Results from calendar year 2019 are now available online. Individual… Continued Launch of the New Data.gov Catalog February 5, 2021 By Crystal Carter On February 5, 2021 we will be launching a new version of the Data.gov catalog. The new catalog is the culmination of many months of work in updating the behind-the-scenes functioning of the Data.gov catalog, which automatically harvests over 1000… Continued COVID-19 is Complex, as is COVID-19 Open Data December 14, 2020 By Crystal Carter This post was originally published on the Healthdata.gov blog by Kristen Honey, Chief Data Scientist and Senior Advisor to Assistant Secretary for Health (ASH), HHS; Amy Gleason, Data Strategy and Execution Workgroup Lead, U.S. Digital Service; and Kevin Duvall, Deputy Chief Data… Continued Improving Access to Older Adult Health Data for Timely Use Amid COVID-19 and Beyond September 15, 2020 By Crystal Carter Today marks the launch of the Older Adults Health Data Collection – a new resource cataloging over 200 Federal datasets previously available on Data.gov related to the health of older Americans. This centralized location will assist experts from academia, industry,… Continued Introducing the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) redesigned International Energy Portal March 5, 2020 By Crystal Carter The U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) has redesigned its International Energy Portal to streamline navigation, simplify data presentation, and implement responsive design use. EIA based many of the redesigned aspects on customer feedback about the earlier beta release of the… Continued After the storms - Research on How to Improve Marine Transportation System Resilience after the 2017 Hurricane Season December 18, 2019 By Marin Kress A 2018 report from the U.S. Committee on the Marine Transportation System (CMTS) gathered recommendations and ‘lessons learned’ from the 2017 hurricane season on how to improve resiliency across the marine transportation system. The report notes that “over the course… Continued Hourly Electric Grid Monitor reports new information on U.S. electricity demand, net generation, and interchange collected by the U.S. Energy Information Administration November 20, 2019 By Crystal Carter To a federal statistical agency like the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA), there's nothing more satisfying than providing needed information that can facilitate more informed analysis and policy decisions on a national and regional level. EIA recently launched its new Hourly…; Continued Previous 1 2 3 … 14 Next About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov