Debt Statistics - Methodology Debt Statistics Debt Statistics Home About Statistics Publications Methodology Debt Events Contact Us FAQ Methodology Debt statistics are compiled and disseminated using the concepts and definitions of the latest international standards. Below you can access methodology relating to our databases and additional manuals and guides, such as the Balance of Payments and International Investment Position Manual and the BPM6 Compilation Guide . « » IDS DSSI QEDS QPSD Additional Manuals and Guides IDS 2024: Data Sources and Methodology ----- About DRS and IDS The DRS Manual is available in the following languages (PDF): English Spanish French Russian The DRS system captures detailed information at loan level for external borrowing of reporting countries using standardized set of forms. Click on the various forms below for a direct download to the Excel form: Form 1 : Description of Individual External Public Debt and Private Debt Publicly Guaranteed Form 1a : Schedule of Drawings and Principal and Interest Payments for Individual External Public Debt and Private Debt Publicly Guaranteed Form 2 : Individual External Public Debts and Private Debts Publicly Guaranteed Current Status and Transactions during Period Form 3 : Revisions of Forms 1 and 2 Form 4 : External Private Non-Guaranteed Debt Additional guides: DRS: What it Measures (PDF) 2013 External Debt Statistics: Guide for Compilers and Users (PDF) Data access: For access to data more granular than the IDS database, please see the World Bank Access to Information Policy . The IDS database and the IDR publication are is published annually in the fall. Following this publication, data and metadata updates in the IDS database and the online tables will be reflected by the end of December and April in a database refresh. For more information on the DRS, please visit the data tables , FAQ , or the Data Help Desk . To support the Bank-IMF Debt Service Suspension Initiative (DSSI) and in the interests of greater debt transparency, the World Bank released data on the public and publicly guaranteed debt stocks and projected debt service due, for the DSSI eligible countries, disaggregated by creditor type. Debt Service Payment Projections: What we Measure [archived] For more information on DSSI, please visit our data tables or the FAQ . In October 2014, the World Bank in collaboration with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) , launched the new Quarterly External Debt Statistics (QEDS) SDDS and GDDS databases inline with the classifications and definitions of the 2013 External Debt Statistics: Guide for Compilers and Users (2013 EDS Guide) and Sixth Edition of Balance of Payments and International Investment Position Manual (BPM6) . The QEDS databases provides external debt data, starting from 1998Q1 (for SDDS) and 2002Q4 (for GDDS). The participation of countries in the QEDS databases is voluntary. Read more about QEDS: SDDS methodology GDDS methodology Additional resources: 2013 External Debt Statistics: Guide for Compilers and Users Subscribing countries: SDDS | GDDS Reporting countries: SDDS | GDDS QEDS reporting template: SDDS | GDDS QEDS Submission and Publication Calendar For more information on QEDS, please visit our data tables or the FAQ . The Quarterly Public Sector Debt Statistics (QPSD) database, jointly developed by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, brings together detailed quarterly public sector debt data of selected countries, initially mainly developing and emerging market economies. The main purpose of the PSD database is to facilitate timely dissemination in standard formats of public sector debt data. By bringing such data and metadata together in one central location, the database supports macroeconomic analysis and cross-country comparison. Read more about QPSD: QPSD methodology Additional resources: Public Sector Debt Statistics: Guide for Compilers and Users Reporting countries For more information on QPSD, please visit the data tables or the FAQ . QPSD reporting template QPSD publication calendar Balance of Payments and International Investment Position Manual BPM6 Compilation Guide JEDH Metadata: Creditor/Market JEDH Metadata: Comparator Related Sites Topic Debt Topic Find news and research from around the World Bank Group on debt. Topic Debt Relief Learn about the work that the World Bank, in partnership with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the international community, is doing with developing countries to reduce their debt burdens. Program Debt & Fiscal Risks Toolkit Learn about the set of tools and reports used by the World Bank Group to help countries manage public debt and fiscal risks effectively. Contact World Bank Debt Data Team 1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC 20433 Email us Learn more Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->