Brazil’s digital TV system delivers health, education and jobs at the touch of a remote control --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Brazil’s digital TV system delivers health, education and jobs at the touch of a remote control May 24, 2013 This page in: English Português Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> After the platform is fully operational in Brazil, EBC seeks to export it to other Latin American countries, as well as to Africa. EBC STORY HIGHLIGHTS EBC, Brazil’s broadcasting service, is creating an interactive television system to deliver public services nationwide. Trials were conducted in three low-income neighborhoods of Joao Pessoa, in northeastern Brazil. Impacts of this pilot project were assessed by World Bank researchers. The results will be available in August. The way people watch TV has definitely changed in three poor neighborhoods of Joao Pessoa, the capital city of Paraíba in Northeastern Brazil. And it’s not because a new soap opera or any other TV show went live. Last December, a new digital television service was made available for 100 local families, all of them benefiting from Brasil sem Miséria plan . The interactive system gives them access to a range of public services – information on health care, financial literacy, social programs, jobs and training opportunities – at the touch of a remote control. “Now I can apply for jobs and search for training offers without even leaving my bedroom,” says hairdresser Edineide Santos. “Back in the days people here had to take at least one bus to reach the National Employment System (Sine, its acronym in Portuguese) office.” Online facilities These new job opportunities for Edineide are provided by EBC, Brazil’s public broadcasting service. All content is delivered via a satellite that communicates with local antennae, which then transmit the digital signals to set top boxes distributed among the families. In addition to the boxes, they received a remote control and training. “The technology enables them to engage with the content as if they were online, even if there’s no broadband connectivity in the area,” says Andre Barbosa, Technical Development manager at EBC. “Besides, the system is easy to use, which is important for this part of the population that relies on TV as their main information source. The remote control is just like any other, with red, yellow, blue and green buttons,” he adds. Ninety-seven percent of Brazilian households have at least one TV set. " Now I can apply for jobs and search for training offers without even leaving my bedroom. " Edineide Santos Haidresser Impact figures The jobs and training channel not only caught Edineide Santos’ attention, but was also considered a favorite by most users. This is something EBC found out thanks to a survey conducted by World Bank researchers to assess the impacts of this technology on local families. Other figures and analysis will be made available by August. These data will help EBC implement a national digital platform that will broadcast interactive content from all of the country’s public TV channels. From the platform, that can cost Brazil’s government as little as BRL10 (US$4.90) per family a year, people will be able to accomplish several everyday tasks: checking bank account balances, calculating the severance pay they’re entitled to, scheduling a hospital appointment, among others. “Everything can be done from home and free of charge,” Barbosa comments. Technology for export While the implementation plan is not yet structured, the platform name is already well-defined: Brasil 4D. But the acronym has nothing to do with an evolution of 3D technology, as one may think. Actually it stands for Democracy, Diversity, Development, and Digital, the four guiding principles of this system. After the platform is fully operational in Brazil, EBC seeks to export it to other Latin American countries, as well as to Africa. RELATED WORLD BANK Brazil - Home Page Brazil - News and Views Brazil 4D: Socioeconomic impact of the interactive digital public TV system (pt) Blog - Brazil's dream goal for 2014 EXTERNAL Video (in Portuguese) - Brazil 4D Brazil Latin America and Caribbean Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.