RAMP Voices: Simona Colaiacomo, FAO of the United Nations Who We Are News FEATURE STORY June 30, 2021 RAMP Voices: Simona Colaiacomo, FAO of the United Nations Email Print Tweet Share Share LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Meet: Simona Colaiacomo, FAO of the United Nations RAMP Voices is a series by the World Bank Treasury Reserve Advisory & Management Partnership (RAMP) that highlights members for their contributions to the Partnership. Simona Colaiacomo is Head of Treasury and Senior Financial Officer at the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, where she is responsible for the Organization’s cash and liquidity management, foreign exchange operations, and investment management activities. Simona likes most the diversity of topics tackled in her role, including the budgetary questions and issues with liquidity management. She previously worked in investment banking at Société Générale in Paris and Dexia in Rome. What are the top three reasons your institution joined RAMP? The UN FAO joined RAMP primarily for the capacity building assistance, technical expertise, and asset management services. We were also drawn to RAMP from the World Bank’s reputation in governance. What do you appreciate most about RAMP? I have had the pleasure of meeting many different colleagues with different styles, who contribute different perspective and explanations for technical topics. This makes every workshop and training event unique, which I greatly appreciate. What is one lesson you have learned from another RAMP member institution? The first that comes to mind is from a prominent Central American central bank. Many years ago, in a risk management workshop, I had an interesting exchange on how they managed risk, which was very helpful for my daily work. What’s your favorite RAMP resource? Although I have many favorites, RAMP’s online events, especially the short webinars have been distinctly useful. What's your favorite workshop? I have two favorites: Managing an External Asset Management workshop and Custody Services workshop. I’m also pleased to share that UN FAO previously co-hosted the Market Risk, Indexation and Performance Measurement workshop with RAMP. "The UN FAO joined RAMP primarily for the capacity building assistance, technical expertise, and asset management services. We were also drawn to RAMP from the World Bank’s reputation in governance. " Simona Colaiacomo Head of Treasury & Senior Financial Officer, FAO FAO is a specialized agency of the United Nations that leads international efforts to defeat hunger. FAO's goal is to achieve food security for all and make sure that people have regular access to enough high-quality food to lead active, healthy lives. With over 194 member states, FAO works in over 130 countries worldwide. Describe one of the most memorable moments working with RAMP. There simply have been too many memorable moments to name one. Name the top three things with which RAMP has helped you, your team, or your institution? RAMP has helped us with the strategic asset allocation of our short-term portfolio. RAMP has been an essential partner and trusted advisor as well. For example, they hosted a risk seminar for our Investment Committee, which has been immensely helpful. Other FAO colleagues outside of the treasury unit have been able to take advantage of the services. Has your institution participated in the RAMP Survey on Central Bank Reserve Management Practices? No, this is not applicable to us. Have you used the Benchmarking Analysis Tool? If so, what did you use it for? No. RAMP: The Reserve Advisory & Management Partnership RAMP is a program developed within the World Bank Treasury that builds human capital, delivers asset management services, and convenes a network of practitioners—all in one. What do you look forward to next in your work with RAMP? Exploring real estate investment for our long-term portfolio and discussing the main risks and implementation strategies for this asset class. What’s the next product or service RAMP should offer? We are hopeful that RAMP will provide asset and liability management studies and asset management mandates with an environmental, social and governance focus. RELATED WORLD BANK Reserve Advisory & Management Partnership (RAMP) Member Website Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations Api Api Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->