Broadband Networks in the Middle East and North Africa: Accelerating High-Speed Internet Access --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work Home publication publication Broadband Networks in the Middle East and North Africa: Accelerating High-Speed Internet Access This page in: English العربية Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Cover of the report The demand for widespread access to broadband internet, a key driver of economic growth, job creation, and social inclusion, has never been greater in the Arab world. This report, “Broadband Networks in MENA: Accelerating High-Speed Internet Access", takes stock of the existing infrastructure in at least 18 countries, and examines the various regulatory and market bottlenecks that are hampering the growth of the Internet in the region. The report is also in tune with the regional transition toward more inclusive development and addresses the need for stimulating growth and creating desperately needed jobs. Download the report "Broadband Networks in MENA: Accelerating High-Speed Internet Access" in PDF: English (Full), Arabic (Executive Summary), French (Executive Summary). CHAPTER 1 : INTRODUCTION The report’s opening chapter presents the importance of broadband for economic and social development for the countries of the Middle East and Africa (MENA). It compares the performance of MENA internationally in terms of broadband, noting the correlation between good economic performance on the one hand, and low prices and high penetration of broadband on the other. CHAPTER 2 : NATIONAL BROADBAND POLICIES AND MARKET DEVELOPMENT Chapter 2 examines in more detail the current state of fixed and mobile broadband networks and constraining factors for broadband development in MENA countries. The importance of national broadband policies is described and their core objectives in improving access, stimulating adoption, and enabling competition, the relative importance of which depends on the stage of market development. CHAPTER 3 : INFRASTRUCTURE DEPLOYMENT AND DEVELOPING COMPETITION The key challenges of broadband infrastructure deployment and development of competition in are identified in Chapter 3, in terms international and regional connectivity, national backbone, and access networks (fixed and mobile). All three elements have to be in place and optimally used to meet increasing demand in the most cost-effective way but challenges in terms of investment differ significantly. CHAPTER 4 : RECOMMENDATIONS TO ACCELERATE THE DEVELOPMENT OF BROADBAND INFRASTRUCTURE Chapter 4 provides recommendations to address the development of broadband infrastructure. The key factors limiting its development in most countries in the region are lack of effective competition and lack of appropriate regulation. The report recommends promoting facilities-based competition, addressing underserved areas of the country, applying new models of infrastructure supply, and implementing measures to decrease deployment costs. CHAPTER 5 : CONCLUSION The final chapter briefly summarizes the opportunity and the challenges facing countries in the MENA region with regard to broadband development. Currently MENA lags behind other regions in terms of prices, penetration and content but the potential benefits of leapfrogging existing infrastructure are high. ANNEXES The annexes include detailed case studies of the status of broadband policy and broadband development in selected MENA countries (Algeria, Egypt, Morocco, Libya, Tunisia and Jordan). Algeria Home Djibouti Egypt Gulf Cooperation Council Iran Iraq Jordan Lebanon Libya Morocco Syria Tunisia West Bank and Gaza Yemen View More + RELATED Press Release Event page Op-Ed: A Digital Leap for the Arab World Full Report: Broadband Networks in MENA Executive summary (pdf) Key facts (pdf) World Bank ICT Sector Strategy RELATED BLOGS Lowering Barriers to High Speed Internet in the Arab World High-Speed internet and the Values of the Arab Spring Broadband in MENA: what will it take to expand internet access? MULTIMEDIA Previous 1 / 3 Next Video VIDEO A Digital Revolution for the Arab World Video VIDEO Development could be a click away in the Arab World Video VIDEO How important is High Speed Internet in the Arab World? --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.