Innovative Livestock Farming Protects the Environment in Argentina --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Innovative Livestock Farming Protects the Environment in Argentina December 27, 2012 This page in: English Español Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Grazing livestock on sustainable grassland protects the habitat for 500 bird and 100 wild animal species. Natural Grassland Livestock STORY HIGHLIGHTS The sustainable grassland livestock allows production without harming the ecosystem. • There are four pilots usingthis technique in the Buenos Aires, Entre Ríos, Santa Fe and Corrientes provinces. • Natural grasslands beef is now on sale within Argentina. Argentinean meat is, without doubt, one of the main products in the local market and a frequent ingredient in family meals. It is also exported to hundreds of countries and recognized globally for its high quality. But, which is the impact of its production in the environment? The grasslands, where livestock graze, used to be one of the largest biomes of the planet. Nowadays, it only covers 8% of the earth’s surface. According to the NGO’s Aves Argentinas and Fundacion Vida Silvestre , cattle-ranching was traditionally one of the most sustainable activities. However, in the last ten years, due to an excessive number of animals per area -many more than what the land can withstand- and toxic and expensive technology, grasslands are considered one of the most altered and threatened ecosystems in the world. To preserve the Pampas’ grasslands - one of the richest areas of biodiversity in the world- sustainable grassland livestock has arrived on the scene : a technique which allows animals to graze freely while protecting the habitat of 500 bird and 100 wild animal species. This initiative not only protects the environment but also has huge potential to ensure food security and a means of living for several communities. "The livestock sector is one of the key players in debates on climate change, the sustainability of the food system and public health protection", said WB Director for Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay, Penelope Brook, during the 6 th meeting of Southern Cone Natural Grassland Cattle Ranches, which recently took place in Cayasta, in the province of Buenos Aires. " The livestock sector is one of the key players in debates on climate change, sustainability of the food system and protection of public health " Penelope Brook WB Director for Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay An ecological meat, far from Utopia Natural grassland livestock is already being implemented in pilots in four different sites in the provinces of Buenos Aires, Entre Rios, Santa Fe y Corrientes. The Argentina Grassland Program is being undertaken by Aves Argentinas and Fundacion Vida Silvestre and supported by a donation from the Global Environmental Facility (GEF), managed by the World Bank. An important milestone for this initiative is the fact that natural grassland beef is now on sale in the Argentinean market . It is also expected that other countries such as Uruguay, Brazil and Paraguay -where pilot projects are also in place- will start to sell the produce in their local markets. Additionally, this ecological meat will soon be evaluated to European export standards. "Nowadays, a global agenda is designed around the fact that livestock production is very likely to increase because of population growth and a better economic environment in the world. This growing demand represents an opportunity that several countries of the region will not want to miss," added Brook. RELATED WORLD BANK Home - Argentina Feature Story: Natural Grasslands Beef To Be Certified Soon Argentina Grasslands Project (Mercosur) EXTERNAL Aves Argentinas (spanish) Fundacion Vida Silvestre (spanish) Natural Grasslands (spanish) Argentina Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.