Updates - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Updates Previous 1 … 7 8 9 … 14 Next Ecosystem Vulnerability Maps November 14, 2014 By Data.gov admins Here you will find a collection of maps and map layers that can help us to visually understand the vulnerability of ecosystems, and related climate change impacts. Continued Launch of Water theme of Climate.Data.Gov + Framing Questions October 27, 2014 By Data.gov admins To help communities and individuals plan for the risks of climate-change-related impacts on water resources, the U.S. Government is releasing today a collection of datasets containing information relevant to this important issue. Select data are also being made available via… Continued Food Resilience Theme Adds Seven Datasets October 7, 2014 By Debra Peters The U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) interactive energy disruption maps combine real-time data feeds from NOAA's National Hurricane Center with more than 20 map layers showing the nation's energy infrastructure and resources. This new tool, available around the clock on the EIA… Continued 2014 AWRA Annual Water Resources Conference September 25, 2014 By Aaron Borden 2014 AWRA Annual Water Resources Conference Open Water Data Initiative – Unifying Water Data for the Nation Call For Lightening Talks (Deadline: October 27, 2014) In coordination with The White House Climate Data Initiative, the Federal Geographic Data Committee, and… Continued Food Resilience Framing Questions July 29, 2014 By Ana Pinheiro Privette FOOD PRODUCTION 1. How will crop yield and production of other food products be affected by changes in climate? 2. What types of food and locations will be most vulnerable to changes in climate? 3. How will changes in climate affect the types of food… Continued Climate Model Projections Guidance Notes July 28, 2014 Key message: Climate simulation results can help inform decisions that involve climate change, but using these data is more involved than selecting and downloading data from a web portal. Before using scenarios or climate simulation results, it is important to make sure you have formulated specific questions you want to address, and to investigate whether you can do that using the results of existing analyses, rather than performing … Continued Climate Model Projections July 28, 2014 Target User Community: As with the other resources provided through climate.data.gov, this page is primarily intended for audiences, such as data innovators, who want to use government data to develop tools to help others learn … Continued NASA launches Earth Science Challenges July 25, 2014 By Ana Pinheiro Privette Through the Open NASA Earth Exchange, NASA is challenging innovators to use data from Earth's satellites in new and creative ways, including for applications that help people understand climate change. Learn more. Continued Food Resilience Featured Content July 25, 2014 By Data.gov admins Food production, distribution, safety, and international security are becoming increasingly vulnerable to changes in climate that can include increases or decreases in the amount as well as the rate of change in precipitation and temperature. The drought in California and … Continued Food Resilience Data July 25, 2014 By Data.gov admins The U.S. Government and its partners have been collecting data relevant to the vulnerability of the food system to climate change for over a century. Useful datasets on this topic include the Census of Agriculture, the leading source of facts… Continued Previous 1 … 7 8 9 … 14 Next About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov