MENA Quarterly Economic Brief --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work Home publication publication MENA Quarterly Economic Brief This page in: English Français العربية Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Copyright: Arne Hoel l World Bank The MENA Quarterly Economic Brief supplements the World Bank’s semi-annual MENA Economic Monitor with a real-time review, using high-frequency data, of selected countries or issues in the MENA region. July 2016: Whither Oil Prices? The latest issue of the MENA Quarterly Economic Brief projects that oil prices will settle in the range of $53 to $60 by 2020, when supply and demand are expected to be in balance. The report discusses the new normal of low oil prices and what this means for different MENA countries. Past issues January 2016: The Economic Effects of War and Peace Growth in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) is revised downward to 2.6 % in 2015 and the short term prospects remain “cautiously pessimistic”. The report examines the different ways in which civil wars affect the economies of the region, including the important channel of forced displacement, which has become a crisis. July, 2015: Economic Implications of Lifting Sanctions on Iran This issue traces the economic effects of the latter development—removing sanctions on Iran—on the world oil market, on Iran’s trading partners, and on the Iranian economy. The most significant change will be Iran’s return to the oil market. January 2015: Plunging Oil Prices The over-50% decline in world oil prices—from US$115 a barrel in June 2014 to less than US$50 today—will have significant consequences for the economies of the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region. July 2014: Predictions, Perceptions and Economic Reality Egypt, Tunisia, Iran, Lebanon, Jordan, Yemen and Libya experienced rapid economic growth during 2000-10, and suffered a sharp economic slowdown in the aftermath of 2011. The brief focuses on the challenges facing these countries with a closer look at the actual growth performance in comparison with their forecasts. January 2014: Growth slowdown heightens the need for reforms Ongoing regional tensions, together with a challenging external environment, have hit the economies of the Middle East and North Africa region hard. Economic growth is slowing, fiscal buffers are depleting, unemployment is rising, and inflation is mounting. July 2013: Growth Slowdown Extends into 2013 While the focus has been on the recent change in government in Egypt, five countries in the Middle East and North Africa Region, including Egypt, Tunisia, Lebanon, Jordan and Iran are facing a growth slowdown, rising fiscal deficits and debt, and high unemployment and inflation. Last Updated: Jul 28, 2016 Algeria Home Djibouti Egypt Gulf Cooperation Council Iran Iraq Jordan Lebanon Libya Morocco Syria Tunisia West Bank and Gaza Yemen View More + RELATED MENA Economic Monitor Chief Economist page --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.