Christoph Pusch: Working to Reduce Risks Related to Disasters --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Christoph Pusch: Working to Reduce Risks Related to Disasters April 16, 2014 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Christoph Pusch , the Africa Disaster Risk Management Group Practice Leader, is helping to lead the World Bank Africa Region’s effort to further intensify the focus on the reduction of risks related to disaster events. Working with regional partners, the Group aims to reduce the vulnerability and economic impact of the poorest populations through increased disaster resilience. Christoph believes that In order to achieve the World Bank Group’s goal of ending extreme poverty by 2030, implementing disaster risk management strategies at every level of society is paramount. This includes promoting regional integration and cooperation on disaster risk management, strengthening preparedness and modernizing facilities to improve weather, climate and hydrological forecasting. He spoke with the Bank's Amelody Lee recently to discuss disaster risk management challenges facing Sub-Saharan Africa and how the Bank is responding. What types of disaster affect Africa? Christoph notes that floods, cyclones and drought are the most common forms of disasters in Sub-Saharan Africa and often follow seasonal patterns such as the rainy season in the southern regions and West and drier periods along the Sahel and Horn of Africa. These disasters are compounded by a limited infrastructure, lack of consistent information exchanges and a general lack of institutional response mechanisms. Even non-extreme events can have a large impact on vulnerable areas. The World Bank Africa region is addressing these issues and supports the idea that disaster risk management must be integrated into the main development agenda. What are hidden disasters? The agenda in Africa is much different. Hidden disasters are the more frequent events that do not receive wide media coverage. 11 of the most highly vulnerable countries to disaster are located in Africa. This means poorer families exposed to flood or drought can almost certainly never escape from the cycle of poverty. This is the reason why the agenda must be shifted from that of a concentration on emergency response to one more focused on long-term resilience. How is a risk mitigation strategy created? It is important to be able to quantify the risks of disasters. This helps to form a risk mitigation strategy and better plan for longer term engagement. Again, this requires a cultural shift both within and beyond the Bank from focusing on emergency responses to disasters to working toward longer term mitigation strategies. The Bank is working to support this through continued dialogue with Governments in order to advance the capacity of dealing with longer term risks. MULTIMEDIA Video VIDEO Christoph Pusch: Working to Reduce Risks Related to Disasters Home Disaster Risk Management Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.