Nigeria to Strengthen Resilience for 7.4 million Persons affected by Displacement Who We Are News PRESS RELEASE August 8, 2025 Nigeria to Strengthen Resilience for 7.4 million Persons affected by Displacement Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina WASHINGTON, August 08, 2025 - The World Bank has approved on August 7, $300 million in financing for the Solutions for the Internally Displaced and Host Communities Project (SOLID). This initiative will enhance access to essential services and economic opportunities for Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) and host communities in selected Local Government Areas (LGAs) in Northern Nigeria. By adopting an integrated development strategy, the SOLID Project seeks to help both IDPs and host communities move towards greater self-sufficiency and resilience, in line with Nigeria’s long-term development goals. Ongoing conflict and insecurity in Northern Nigeria have forced more than 3.5 million people from their homes, putting significant strain on local infrastructure in areas where IDPs have settled. The resulting population surge has led to limited access to services and increased vulnerability to natural disasters like flooding. Local governments are unable to fully address these challenges and meet the needs of both residents and displaced populations. This has led to competition for scarce resources and limited livelihood opportunities for all. The SOLID Project will build on previous efforts by the Nigerian government, international partners, and the earlier World Bank-supported Multi-Sectoral Crisis Recovery Project (MCRP), which focused on short-term emergency recovery. Key priorities for the project include: (i) developing and maintaining climate-resilient infrastructure; (ii) promoting social cohesion and community resilience through participatory development planning, economic cooperatives, and the integration of IDPs; (iii) supporting livelihoods to help both IDPs and local residents initiate and sustain new economic activities; and (iv) strengthening institutions to better respond to demographic changes caused by forced displacement. “ We are glad to support this initiative which has a tremendous potential to help Nigeria in addressing development challenges associated with protracted displacement in a sustainable way ”, said Mathew Verghis, World Bank Country Director for Nigeria , “ The Project’s integrated approach which is aligned with the National IDP Policy and the FGN’s long-term development vision will ensure that IDPs and host communities can transition from dependency on humanitarian assistance to self-reliance and resilience which will open up better economic opportunities” The SOLID Project is expected benefit up to 7.4 million people, of which up to 1.3 million individuals are identified as IDPs. The project will be implemented through a coordinated, community-driven approach involving all tiers of government, with strong partnerships from international stakeholders. By bridging the gap between emergency relief and long-term development, SOLID aims to help Northern Nigeria transition from crisis response to stability, resilience, and inclusive growth. “This operation is central to tackling the enduring displacement crisis in Northern Nigeria. It reflects the urgency of addressing infrastructure gaps and service delivery challenges in host communities that were already strained before the influx of displaced populations. It will provide targeted livelihoods support to help both displaced and host populations achieve sustainable economic outcomes” said Fuad Malkawi and Christopher Johnson , Task Team Leaders for SOLID. PRESS RELEASE NO: 2026/013/AFW Contacts Mansir Nasir, +234 8033546639 mnasir2@worldbank.org Maryam Laushi, +234 7034044857 mlaushi@worldbankgroup.org RELATED The World Bank in Nigeria Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×