The Annual Conference of the Parliamentary Network on the World Bank & IMF in Baku --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY The Annual Conference of the Parliamentary Network on the World Bank & IMF in Baku May 23, 2013 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> On May 23-24, 2013 - Some 170 MPs from more than 70 countries gathered in Baku, Azerbaijan for a two day conference organized by the Parliamentary Network on the World Bank & IMF and hosted by the Association for Civil Society Development in Azerbaijan (ACSDA). This year's Parliamentary Network Conference focused on how to secure sustained, sustainable and inclusive growth in developed, emerging, developing and fragile countries alike, through social protection; mitigating and adapting to climate change; promoting openness in the extractive industries sector; facilitating private sector growth; and strengthening parliamentary oversight. The participating MPs also elected a new Board for the Parliamentary Network at the conference, which can be seen here . World Bank President Jim Yong Kim and IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde both addressed the participants in pre-recorded video messages at the opening of the Conference. In his address, President Kim called on the support from MPs to work in partnership towards achieving the twin poverty goals approved by the Development Committee during the World Bank Spring Meetings. These twin goals were well received by the MPs, who in a statement at the end of the conference "... welcome[d] and embrace[d] the twin aims of eradicating poverty by 2030 and promoting shared prosperity". As part of a session on the World Bank's support to fragile and conflict affected states, participants also saw President Kim cross the Congo River, in a short video recorded the day prior. World Bank Managing Director Caroline Anstey answered questions from the attending parliamentarians in a live Q&A session, with MPs asking Managing Director Anstey to comment on the BRIC bank initiative; the World Bank Group's continued commitment to fight corruption; the extent to which job creation is being considered when the WBG is assessing investments and loans; the Bank's efforts in Mali; and WBG plans for infrastructure investments in Africa. The participating MPs were also interested in what kind of investments would have the greatest impact on reducing poverty, and how the Bank plans to involve MPs in realizing the twin poverty goals; and how the Bank can strengthen the green economy, and help reduce the impact of climate change. Other World Bank Speakers included: Vice President for External Affairs Cyril Muller who gave an overview on "Ending poverty and the post 2015 Millennium Development Goals (MDG) framework"; Climate Change Special Representative Patrick Verkooijen who briefed MPs on the so-called 4-degrees report and the need for bold action; Regional Country Director for the South Caucasus Henry Kerali on the Bank's work with MPs; Country Sector Coordinator for the South Caucasus, Angela Prigozhina on the importance of private sector development; Senior Operations Officer from the Nairobi Global Center on Conflict, Security and Development, Anne-Lise Klausen, on the Bank's work in Fragile and Conflict affected states; and WBI consultant Riccardo Pelizzo, on Parliamentary oversight. The Parliamentary Network will produce a report from the conference, which will be available on their website www.pnowb.org RELATED WORLD BANK Conference Programme (PDF) Participants' List (PDF) VIDEO - World Bank President, Jim Yong Kim: Opening Message VIDEO - World Bank President, Jim Yong Kim: Starting a Historic Trip with the United Nations VIDEO - World Could Be 4 Degrees hotter By End of This Century Cyril Muller: World Bank Group Goals IMF (PDF) Henry G. R. Kerali (PDF) Anne-Lise Clausen: FCS & the New Deal (PDF) Turn Down the Heat: Why a 4ºC Warmer World Must be Avoided (PDF) IDA 17 Replenishment The IMF and Legislators EXTERNAL Parliamentary Network on the World Bank and IMF Azerbaijan Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.