Delivering Jobs for People Living in Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY August 28, 2025 Delivering Jobs for People Living in Poverty Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Evidence from India, Niger, and Zambia shows lasting income gains and strong returns from economic inclusion programs— generating up to $3.8 in benefits for every $1 invested within 10 years. Now more than ever, people need better access to jobs. In emerging markets, 1.2 billion young people will reach working age over the next decade—yet only 420 million jobs are projected to be created. That leaves hundreds of millions, many of them from poor and vulnerable communities, without a clear pathway to a stable income, dignity, and opportunity. While private sector growth and public sector reform are critical to create more jobs in the future, we also need solutions for those who can’t afford to wait. As the global economy grapples with the challenge of creating enough jobs for a rapidly growing working-age population, we have to start looking at solutions that can ensure millions get access to opportunity now. What is needed are relatively small investments that help make real and quick progress meeting the growing jobs challenge. Iffath Sharif Global Director for Social Protection and Labor PEI's Impact: Fitness Kalumbi & Supporting Women's Livelihoods in Zambia Economic Inclusion: A Proven, Scalable Solution Economic inclusion is a core pillar of our response to support people who need better jobs now. These programs help create micro-enterprises by combining income support with business capital, entrepreneurship and life skills training, coaching, and market access, including integration into value chains. By layering these measures, economic inclusion programs promote income generation, self-employment, and asset accumulation, especially among women, while fostering long-term self-reliance. Evidence shows that these programs increase people’s incomes—and do so sustainably. In Zambia and Niger, for instance, business profits increased by 45% and 107%, respectively. What’s especially encouraging is that impacts don’t fade. In Zambia, where nearly 145,000 women have received support, new data show that the benefits lasted more than three years after the program ended. Household incomes continued to rise—driven by an 80% increase in business profits. Similarly, data from India show the durability of impacts, with income gains sustained ten years after the program ended. These findings align with a growing body of global evidence from randomized evaluations and research . Six studies in Afghanistan, Bangladesh, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ghana, Nepal, and Niger found a benefit-cost ratio between 121 to 379 percent . And when impacts are sustained—as seen in long-term studies from India—every US$1 invested in the program delivered US$3.8 in benefits by year 10. That’s money well spent. Countries are increasingly scaling these programs to reach those who need them most. Today, over 400 economic inclusion programs are being implemented across 88 countries, benefiting more than 70 million people directly or indirectly. Many of these programs are government-led and built into broader efforts to support policies for job creation and social protection. From Evidence to Action: Countries Are Leading the Way This momentum is translating into country-led action. At this year’s World Bank Group Spring Meetings, the Government of Brazil hosted the launch of the Academy Impact Program: Creating Jobs for the Poor . This initiative offers peer learning and practical guidance to help countries design solutions, scaling up economic inclusion programs. With support from global partners such as BRAC International and the Global Alliance Against Hunger and Poverty , the World Bank Group Academy and the Partnership for Economic Inclusion are working with a cohort of 11 countries to co-design economic inclusion programs grounded in evidence and responsive to local contexts. The World Bank Group’s Development Impact Group is also providing evidence-based learning and advancing the research agenda. Together, this coalition is translating global knowledge into localized action—fostering innovation, supporting reform, and helping governments deliver at scale. These efforts are backed by unprecedented World Bank investment. Today, close to $30 billion in social protection financing is helping over 222 million people in 72 countries withstand shocks and access better jobs. Now, as the World Bank focuses on achieving its SP500 target—to reach 500 million more people with social protection and employment support by 2030—we know that economic inclusion programs are an important part of this investment to increase income and earnings for the poor and build a ladder to opportunity and self-sufficiency. RELATED Social Protection and Labor Development Impact The State of Economic Inclusion Report 2024 Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×