Drilling Down into South Asia’s Groundwater Dilemma --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Drilling Down into South Asia’s Groundwater Dilemma May 27, 2015 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> From left to right: Hanan Jacoby, Asli Demirguc-Kunt, Richard Damania STORY HIGHLIGHTS South Asia accounts for nearly half of global groundwater used for irrigation. 20 million wells across South Asia allow farms to produce year-round but are depleting vital aquifers. Heavily subsidized electricity—particularly in India—contributes to costly overexploitation of this shared resource. Over the last 30 years, the proliferation of borewells with motorized pumps has allowed farmers ever greater access to precious groundwater. This resource has supported gains in agricultural productivity, particularly in South Asia, which accounts for nearly half of the global groundwater used for irrigation. However, increasing exploitation has resulted in resource depletion. This month’s Policy Research Talk was delivered by Lead Economist Hanan Jacoby , who discussed South Asia’s groundwater dilemma as seen through the lens of welfare economics. The Policy Research Talks are a monthly event held by the research department to foster a dialogue between researchers and their colleagues across the World Bank. Drawing on census and survey data collected in India and Pakistan, Jacoby discussed policy approaches to addressing groundwater depletion. Research Director Asli Demirguc-Kunt , who hosted the event, emphasized the importance of water to economic and social development. “Water is vital to maintaining health, growing food, generating energy, and managing the environment,” she said. “Ensuring that people have access to reliable water is very important, as is the management of water resources.” There are over 20 million wells across South Asia. Jacoby’s talk contrasted the Indian Punjab, where wells pump from deep aquifers, the Pakistani Punjab, where similar aquifers are recharged by a dense network of irrigation canals, and Andhra Pradesh, which has shallow aquifers. “After growing by leaps and bounds, groundwater has taken over surface water as the main source of irrigation in India,” Jacoby said. “This is private sector development on a massive scale.” " This is private sector development on a massive scale. " Hanan Jacoby Lead Economist, Research Department This shift has resulted in increasing agricultural intensification, with many more farmers now cultivating in the dry season. Intensification has come at a cost, however, particularly in Northwest India, where the water table has been falling at a rate as high as one-third of a meter per year. In contrast, groundwater in the Pakistani Punjab, where there is far less depletion, is typically used as a buffer that supplements surface irrigation provided by canals. And in Andhra Pradesh, monsoonal rains help recharge aquifers, limiting depletion. Jacoby tackled four interrelated questions in his talk: (1) What are the economic returns to well drilling?; (2) Is groundwater being overexploited?; (3) Are groundwater markets working efficiently?; and (4) What policies can arrest groundwater depletion? In his discussion of the economic returns to well drilling in Andhra Pradesh, Jacoby drew a distinction between the net returns accruing to farmers with and without state subsidies in the form of free electricity used to run pumps. While the net private returns to drilling averaged 3 percent of permanent income, Jacoby found that without the power subsidy, many wells would simply not be economically viable. Building on models from the field of resource economics, Jacoby also found that groundwater is being depleted more quickly than is socially optimal. Jacoby discussed the phenomenon of borewell clustering, whereby farmers dig new borewells when they see a neighbor has a successful borewell, and how clustering leads to well interference. “Continual entry of wells means that each additional well adds very little to the marginal increase in water, while incurring high fixed costs. Through this rent-seeking process, you can get huge welfare losses.” In principle, efficient markets for the sale of groundwater could help reduce the number of new borewells, thereby spreading the fixed costs of borewells over more farmers and spreading the gains more widely. However, in practice these markets have proven to be imperfect. Data showing that sellers charge lower prices to their share tenants than to others buyers points to a degree of monopoly power in these localized markets. Uncertainty around the amount of water likely to be left at the end of the planting season also limited the potential benefits associated with groundwater markets. Jacoby concluded that—at least in certain contexts—there is a strong economic rationale for controlling groundwater exploitation in South Asia. But questions remain about which policies are most likely to be cost-effective. Jacoby outlined a number of options, including removing subsidies for water-intensive crops, charging for electricity, creating a permit system for new wells and power connections, artificially re-charging aquifers with rainwater, community monitoring of aquifer levels, and subsidizing drip irrigation. Discussant Richard Damania, Global Lead Economist in the World Bank’s Water Practice, highlighted the escalating global demand for water, driven by climate change, population growth, and economic growth. “We are using more water, and we are using more water per person. GDP per capita is a bigger driver than population.” Damania pointed to the need to allow price to signal scarcity of this resource, rather than adopting measures that increase its supply. He concluded with a call for the next generation of research in this area to focus on identifying the mechanisms that can best achieve collective action around the use of shared water resources. RELATED WORLD BANK Presentation (PDF) Research Department Policy Research Talks MULTIMEDIA Video VIDEO DEC Policy Research Talk: Well-fare Economics of Groundwater Development Water Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.