ZRF Initiative Endorsers English Zero Routine Flaring by 2030 (ZRF) Initiative Home About Initiative Text Endorsers Supporters Reporting FAQ Organizations Supporting the ZRF Initiative While the “Zero Routine Flaring by 2030” (ZRF) Initiative is for governments, oil companies, and development institutions to endorse, the World Bank encourages relevant organizations to participate as advocates and to help achieve the ZRF Initiative’s objectives. Supporting Organizations European Union Global Methane Hub IPIECA OGUK OPEC OLADE World Petroleum Council The European Union will actively support the "Zero Routine Flaring by 2030" Initiative The European Commission's (EC) " strategy to reduce methane emissions " says it will consider regulation to end routine flaring and venting and pledges its support for the World Bank's Zero Routine Flaring by 2030 initiative. The EC's report states that "The European Union will also join and actively support initiatives, including the international public-private Global Methane Initiative, the World Bank's Global Gas Flaring Reduction initiative, and the World Bank's initiative on Zero Routine Flaring by 2030." The Global Methane Hub supports the “Zero Routine Flaring by 2030” Initiative In a letter to the World Bank, Global Methane Hub CEO Marcelo Mena communicated the organization’s full support, writing "This effort directly aligns with our mission and vision at the Global Methane Hub. We firmly believe that through significant methane emission reduction, we can effectively safeguard both the planet and people from the severe consequences of climate change, precisely the objective pursued by this initiative." IPIECA expresses support for the "Zero Routine Flaring by 2030" Initiative In a letter to the World Bank, IPIECA Executive Director, Brian Sullivan writes that "IPIECA would like to express its support for the aims of the World Bank's "Zero Routine Flaring by 2030" initiative. Aligned with our support for the initiative, IPIECA is planning to work in 2019 to update industry guidance on flare management in collaboration with the Global Gas Flaring Reduction Programme and the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers". IPIECA is the global oil and gas industry association for environment and social issues. OGUK , a leading representative body for the UK offshore oil and gas industry representing over 400 operators, contractors, and associated stakeholders, has expressed its support for the "Zero Routine Flaring by 2030" Initiative. In a letter to the World Bank, OGUK Chief Executive, Deirdre Michie OBE, writes that the "[UK] industry has committed to support the World Bank Zero Routine Flaring by 2030 initiative, as well as accelerate compliance, including phasing out routine flaring and venting with a reduction of 30% over and above natural decline. OGUK and industry regulators are monitoring performance and we have already seen meaningful improvements in 2020. The industry is also taking wider action to cut its methane emissions." OPEC supports the “Zero Routine Flaring by 2030” Initiative In a letter to the World Bank, OPEC Secretary General Mohammad Sanusi Barkindo assures support for the “Zero Routine Flaring by 2030” initiative. Mr. Barkindo writes that “This initiative, along with other similar initiatives, through preventing and mitigating GHG emissions, could contribute profoundly to address climate change as one of the great challenges of our time. Several OPEC Member Countries and countries participating in the Declaration of Cooperation and their oil companies are already participating in this initiative and I am sure if the capacities of other member countries allow, they will also welcome this initiative and would strive to address this environmental challenge.” OLADE committed to supporting and advocating “Zero Routine Flaring by 2030” In a letter to the World Bank, Latin America’s intergovernmental energy organization, OLADE, and its Executive Secretary Eng. Alfonso Blanco Bonilla, write: “…, the Organization aims to support the World Bank’s objectives of the “Zero Routine Flaring by 2030” initiative, which is fully aligned with our objectives and activities. OLADE is also focused on supporting and joining the global effort to end the burning and routine venting by raising awareness, providing technical assistance to the Member Countries that so request it, and encouraging them to join the initiative.” OLADE works for the integration, sustainable development and energy security in the Latin America region, advising and promoting cooperation and coordination among its 27 Member Countries. World Petroleum Council supports the ZRF Initiative and encourages its members to do the same A letter of support from World Petroleum Council (WPC) President Dr. József Tóth says “One of the Council’s core objectives is to support our members by raising awareness of environmental, sustainability, and social issues gaining attention and traction around the world. We encourage all WPC members, particularly from government, national and international oil companies, to endorse this Initiative because it is well-crafted and a highly visible way to demonstrate our industry’s commitment to strong environmental stewardship and effective resource management.” Contact us Organizations interested in publicly supporting the Initiative or learning more about it, please email us with your name and contact information. The ZRF is a World Bank initiative managed by the GFMR trust fund. Find Out About GFMR Arrow RELATED World Bank Websites Extractive Industries Climate Change Global Flaring and Methane Reduction Partnership (GFMR) Energy GFMR Flaring Data MULTIMEDIA VIDEO Apr 17, 2015 End to Flaring Can Provide Energy to Millions VIDEO Dec 07, 2015 A Personal Appeal to End Routine Gas Flaring VIDEO Mar 11, 2016 Canadian PM Finds Compatriots, Common Goals at World Bank Stay Connected --> CONTACTS External Affairs Adam Pollard Email --> Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->