Western Balkans Regular Economic Report --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work Europe and Central Asia publication Western Balkans Regular Economic Report Latest Issue: Fall 2025 Latest Issue: Fall 2025 --> Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> www.worldbank.org/eca/wbrer #WBRER A semi-annual report on recent economic developments and the outlook in the Western Balkans (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Montenegro, North Macedonia, and Serbia). This edition’s spotlight focuses on the jobs challenge in the region. Towards Better Jobs DOWNLOAD Press Release | Albanian | Bosnian | Macedonian | Serbian Economic growth in the Western Balkans is projected to slow to 3.0 percent in 2025 , from 3.6percent in 2024, due to a continued weak external environment coupled with heightened domestic pressures in several countries. A modest Euro-area recovery should help to support improved regional growth by boosting investment and supporting exports, though at a lower rate than in recent years, with a full rebound expected only in 2027. The EU Growth Plan offers a strategic path for the Western Balkans to overcome structural barriers and boost long-term growth through continued reform efforts in five key areas: digital infrastructure; regulatory quality; government effectiveness; financial development; and female labor force participation. The spotlight of this edition of the Western Balkans Regular Economic Report focuses on the jobs challenge . The region faces a labor market paradox — labor shortages coexist with persistently high unemployment (above 10 percent), and relatively low labor force participation (below 55 percent), especially for women, youth, and the elderly. In addition, the working-age population has already shrunk markedly and is projected to fall by nearly one-fifth by 2050. Over the next five years, if current population, growth, and labor market trends continue, the region could face a shortfall of 190,000 workers. A jobs strategy for the region should aim to raise participation, build future-ready skills, improve job quality and inclusion, boost firm productivity and competitiveness, and harness digital and green opportunities through upskilling and flexible work models. Country Factsheets Albania English Albanian | Bosnia and Herzegovina English Bosnian | Kosovo English Albanian Serbian | Montenegro English Montenegrin | North Macedonia English Macedonian | Serbia English Serbian RELATED PRESS RELEASE Jobs Critical to Sustaining Growth in the Western Balkans Oct 07, 2025 REPORT Europe and Central Asia Economic Update Oct 07, 2025 previous reports Western Balkans Regular Economic Reports Albania Europe and Central Asia Bosnia and Herzegovina Kosovo Montenegro Serbia View More + Prev 1 / 3 Next Previous report: Spring 2025 Adapting for Sustainable Growth Read Full Report Previous report: Fall 2024 Retaining the Growth Momentum Read Full Report Previous report: Spring 2024 Invigorating Growth Read Full Report --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.