Event | Financing Ecosystem Restoration: The Frontiers and Gaps of Private Sector Participation Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Financing Ecosystem Restoration: The Frontiers and Gaps of Private Sector Participation Share Overview Speakers Financing ecosystem restoration remains a challenge: global restoration funding totals only $124–143 billion per year against an annual need of $722–967 billion. This gap stems from difficulties in valuing ecosystem services and translating ecological benefits into financial returns. While public and philanthropic funds currently dominate, they are insufficient. Effectively mobilizing private capital through public catalytic financing has become essential—not only to sustain large-scale restoration but also to develop innovative financial instruments that align ecological outcomes with economic incentives. Key to the successful engagement of private sector entities is to understand what are the drivers that motivate firms and investors to step into the ecosystem restoration field. This webinar addresses this issue through the insights of policy makers and private sector stakeholders. This inaugural session of the webinar series, jointly offered by the Livable Landscapes Academy and the China-WBG Global Center for Ecological Systems and Transitions , will feature pioneering examples of ecosystem restoration financing by the private sector, demonstrating the complementary role of governments, financial institutions, and corporates. Objectives: Learn about emerging best practices for mobilizing private sector capital in ecosystem restoration. Discuss, from the viewpoints of key stakeholders, policy drivers and mechanisms that enable private investors to contribute to ecosystem restoration. Dr. Genevieve Connors Opening Remarks & Moderator Acting Global Director, Environment Department, World Bank Group Genevieve Connors manages corporate engagements and global programs on the blue economy, forests and landscapes, the economics and finance of nature, biodiversity and wildlife, and chemical, air, and plastics pollution. From 2022-24, she was the Practice Manager for Environment, Natural Resources, and the Blue Economy in the region of Latin America and the Caribbean. Prof. TAN Rong Vice Dean of the School of Public Affairs and Vice Dean of the Land Academy for National Development, Zhejiang University Professor TAN Rong is the Vice Dean of the School of Public Administration, Vice Dean of the Land Academy for National Development at Zhejiang University. He is a highly recognized researcher in the field of land and natural resource governance, with an emphasis on natural resource asset rights and rural–urban land system integration. He is also actively involved in supporting local governments in realizing the economic value of ecological products. Mr. Marcus Cardoso Santiago Head of Environment Office, Department of Land Management, BNDES, Brazil Marcus Cardoso Santiago is the Head of the Environment Office at the Brazilian National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES). At BNDES, he works on policies and financing instruments that support sustainable development and landscape restoration across Brazil. Ms. Naomi Cooney Senior Financial Officer, Treasury, World Bank Group Naomi Cooney is Senior Financial Officer in the Treasury at the World Bank, where she leads innovative outcome- and catastrophe-bond issuances that mobilize private capital for sustainable development and nature-linked risk transfer. With a background in actuarial science and insurance, she brings deep expertise in structuring finance for resilience and climate-smart landscapes. Ms. Yuan Yuan Director, Zhihui Yuanshi Winery, Ningxia Province, China Yuan Yuan is the Director of Zhihui Yuanshi Winery, where she leads the company’s strategic development and operations. Under her leadership, the winery has expanded its guest experience offerings and helped create local employment opportunities linked to sustainable land use and nature-based tourism. Dr. Sonja Stuchtey Founder and CEO, The Landbanking Group Dr. Sonja Stuchtey, Co-Founder of The Landbanking Group, is a pioneering entrepreneur and innovator at the intersection of finance, technology, and nature. Recognized by Reuters as a Trailblazing Woman in Climate 2024, she works to mainstream natural capital into financial systems, enabling investment in ecosystem restoration and land stewardship across sectors and geographies. Mr. Maarten Weehuizen Managing Director, Africa Conservation and Communities Tourism Fund, an IFC investment to support eco-tourism in African landscapes. Maarten Weehuizen is a Managing Director Fund Manager of the Africa Conservation & Communities Tourism Fund (ACCT), an IFC-backed investment vehicle supporting high-impact tourism enterprises across the continent. He is also a Non-Executive Director and advisor to a number of African tech start-ups with strong social and environmental impact objectives. Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×