World Bank Supports Senegal with $100 Million in Concessional Financing to Transform Urban Mobility in Dakar and Secondary Cities Who We Are News This page in: English Français This page in: English Français PRESS RELEASE June 17, 2025 World Bank Supports Senegal with $100 Million in Concessional Financing to Transform Urban Mobility in Dakar and Secondary Cities Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina WASHINGTON, June 17, 2025 - The World Bank has approved $100 million in concessional financing through the International Development Association (IDA) to support Senegal's urban mobility transformation in the Dakar metropolitan area. The Dakar Sustainable Urban Mobility Project represents the first phase of a comprehensive program supporting the country's commitment to territorial development and sustainable growth. The project will establish an integrated transport system connecting Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) and regional express rail (TER) with restructured bus networks, while structuring and professionalizing informal transport operators and improving traffic management across the metropolitan area. The project will also support relevant preparatory studies for the implementation of a second BRT line and key urban mobility infrastructures in secondary cities. "This operation reflects the World Bank Group’s strong commitment to supporting Senegal's development trajectory as outlined in Vision 2050. By transforming urban mobility in Dakar, this project will unlock economic opportunities for 3.8 million people while transitioning thousands of workers from the informal sector into structured employment with social protection and better career pathways ," said Keiko Miwa, World Bank Division Director for Senegal. “ Through strategic public-private partnerships, this initiative supports the government's vision of inclusive growth by establishing integrated transport systems that enhance territorial development and strengthen connectivity between Dakar and regional economic hubs." The technical approach centers on restructuring priority bus routes into a hierarchical network that integrates with existing mass transit systems. The professionalization of informal operators through structured training and fleet renewal programs addresses both service quality and economic inclusion. The initiative incorporates climate resilience standards throughout infrastructure design, including enhanced drainage systems and nature-based solutions to address flooding risks. The deployment of low-emission buses across priority corridors, combined with systematic traffic management improvements, will support Senegal's transition toward sustainable urban development while reducing the transport sector's environmental footprint in line with the country's green growth objectives. The operation will significantly reduce travel times on key corridors while establishing a foundation for future phases of urban mobility development, including potential expansion to regional hubs and additional mass transit corridors. PRESS RELEASE NO: 2025/092/AFW Contacts In Dakar: Seydina Alioune Djigo, sdjigo@worldbankgroup.org RELATED The World Bank in Senegal The International Development Association (IDA) Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×