Trust, Voice, and Incentives: Learning from Local Success Stories in Service Delivery in the Middle East and North Africa --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work Home publication publication Trust, Voice, and Incentives: Learning from Local Success Stories in Service Delivery in the Middle East and North Africa This page in: English Français العربية Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> This report examines the role of trust, incentives, and engagement as critical determinants of service delivery performance in the countries of the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region. Focusing on education and health, the report illustrates how the weak external and internal accountability relationships prevalent in the MENA political and administrative spheres undermine incentives toward policy implementation and performance, and how such a cycle of poor performance can be counteracted. Part I (Chapters 1 – 3) asks the question: Why does service delivery fall short of potential in the MENA region? In answering the question, the report provides a review of the region’s impressive achievements over the last five years of expanding access to basic education and health services and improving core human development outcomes, while highlighting the remaining challenge of poor service quality and citizens’ dissatisfaction. The conclusion is that a cycle of poor performance has emerged in much of the region as a result of state institutions lacking both internal and external accountability mechanisms. Chapter 3 demonstrates that cycles are alterable. It provides examples of virtuous cycles in the region that have developed at the local level (even in context of a poor performance at the national level) when local stakeholders are driven by individual will or social obligations to take initiatives. Part II (Chapters 4 – 5) chapter 4 explains how historical experience has led citizens to value health and education, fostered their dependence on the state, and has limited state responsiveness. Chapter 5 provides a detailed picture of the political, administrative, and social institutions that affect service delivery. Part III (Chapters 6 -7) offers an analysis of performance at the point of service delivery. It explores the efforts of teachers and health professionals in relation to their access to resources and the influence of institutions. Chapter 6 focuses on the national level, with chapter 7 identifying the extent of subnational variation in service delivery performance. The study of subnational variations underscores that local successes exist and that much about service delivery challenges and possible solutions can be learned in local contexts. Part IV (Chapters 8 – 9) completes the cycle of performance with an analysis of how institutions and performance affect citizens’ perceptions of the state and the nature of citizen action vis-à-vis the state. Chapter 8 shows how performance influences citizens’ trust in the state, with chapter 9 tracing that trust in turn shapes the nature of citizens’ engagement at both the local and national levels. Part V (Chapters 10 – 12) emphasizes the need to build on evidence of local successes and on positive trends that buck the cycle of generally poor performance, as bases for encouragement and action for citizens, civil servants, policy makers, and donors. Chapter 10 discusses the opportunities that crises offer to national and local leaders to reform institutions and accountability mechanisms, and boost citizen trust. Chapter 11 focuses on the role donors can play in supporting reforms, in the absence of major disruptions, by promoting the right incentives. Chapter 12 offer yet another scenario for incremental institutional reforms driven by reform coalitions in society and government. Algeria Home Education Djibouti Egypt Gulf Cooperation Council Iran Iraq Jordan Lebanon Libya Morocco Syria Tunisia West Bank and Gaza Yemen Health View More + RELATED Download Report | Overview Feature Story: Breaking the Cycle of Poor Service Delivery in the Middle East and North Africa Discussion: How do we break the cycle of poor public services in the Arab World? RELATED BLOG A global lesson on educational reform from ten schools in Jordan A story of working together against all odds from a public school in the Palestinian Territories Improving quality of care against all odds: a local success story in Jordan MULTIMEDIA Previous 1 / 2 Next Video VIDEO Ending the Culture of “Come Back Tomorrow” to Improve Services in the Arab World Video VIDEO What Makes this Palestinian School a Top Performer? --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.