Speeding Up the Pace of Regional Integration in East Africa --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Speeding Up the Pace of Regional Integration in East Africa March 19, 2013 This page in: English Français Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> The port of Victoria, Seychelles © Jean-Louis Breisach STORY HIGHLIGHTS At a meeting, hosted by the Republic of Seychelles, 5 countries agreed to speed up economic integration by eliminating trade barriers Seychelles, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique and Zambia have committed to implement a set of policy reforms that will improve their business regulatory environment The meeting was part of the Accelerated Program for Economic Integration, an effort by these 5 countries to facilitate the exchange of goods among their economies VICTORIA, March 19, 2013 – Efforts to accelerate regional integration in eastern Africa received a significant boost at a ministerial meeting held in Victoria, Seychelles where Ministers and representatives from Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Seychelles and Zambia committed themselves to removing trade barriers that impede economic growth, curb job creation and prevent poverty reduction targets from being achieved. “We need to implement reforms that will streamline trade regulation and processes, improve business climate and financial management, enhance trade in services, promote value addition in the agricultural sector and eliminate of non-tariff barriers,” said Hon. Pierre Laporte, Minister of Finance of the Republic of Seychelles at the opening ceremony. In prepared remarks, he emphasized the need for greater trade and investment, urging participants to “Strengthen economic linkages and facilitate the exchange in goods and services among our economies.” The meeting, hosted by the Republic of Seychelles, is part of a new push of the Accelerated Program for Economic Integration (APEI) to speed up economic integration by improving the business regulatory environment, eliminate trade barriers and better collaborate through peer to peer leaning and knowledge sharing. “What’s exciting about the APEI initiative is that we are seeing five countries voluntarily coming together, learning from each other and challenging some of the ways in which they have handled regional integration and trade in the past,” said Colin Bruce, World Bank Director of Strategy and Operations in the Africa Region. The case for deepening regional trade integration in goods and services was recently made in a new World Bank study, “De-fragmenting Africa” which argued that Africa is not achieving its potential in regional trade, urging a reform agenda that covers goods and services that puts in place appropriate regulations for integrated markets and builds the capacity of institutions that are essential for trade across borders. “The landmark APEI meeting in Seychelles reflects the strong commitment and ownership of the process through which stronger regional integration can be achieved,” said Haleh Bridi, World Bank Country Director for Seychelles. “We are delighted to play a supportive role so that greater trade can deliver positive and lasting development outcomes.” In terms of next steps, the Ministers are planning to discuss the trade and regional integration agenda during the Spring Meetings in April 2013. RELATED WORLD BANK Website: Regional Integration in Africa Website: The World Bank in Malawi Website: The World Bank in Mauritius Website: The World Bank in Mozambique Website: The World Bank in Seychelles Website: The World Bank in Zambia Website: The World Bank in Africa Malawi Home Mauritius Mozambique Seychelles Zambia View More + Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.