Remarks at IMF/World Bank 2012 Annual Meetings Development Committee Press Conference --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News Speeches & Transcripts Remarks at IMF/World Bank 2012 Annual Meetings Development Committee Press Conference October 13, 2012 This page in: English Français العربية Русский 中文 Español Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> World Bank President Jim Yong Kim Development Committee Press Conference Tokyo, Japan Transcript In honor of our Japanese hosts, I would like to start my remarks by making some comments in Japanese. Mina-sama Kon-Nichiwa. Okagesama-de, Sekai Ginkou-no Sousai Toshite Hajimete-no Soukai-de Sendai-nimo Iki, Mina-sama-no Yasashisa-to Tsuyosa-ni Fure, Subarashii Kizuna-wo Tsukuru Koto-ga Deki-mashita. Arigato Gozai-mashita . [Hello everybody. Thanks to your help, I could complete my first Annual Meetings and visit Sendai as the President of the World Bank. I was touched by your kindness and resilience. I am glad that we could build a wonderful Kizuna. Thank you very much.] I don’t know if there was translation, but if not, too bad. I want to first of all just thank you. I want to thank the Japanese people and the government of Japan for just a truly outstanding meeting. The Japanese government I think demonstrated to all of us the character of the Japanese people by responding to the great tragedy of March 11, 2011 by insisting that these meetings focus on ensuring that all countries – especially developing countries – have access to all the tools they need for disaster risk management. We’re so grateful to them. I want to thank Christine for her eloquent plenary remarks and leadership, and also DC Chair Marek Belka for his leadership and contribution. I also want to congratulate my European colleagues. Many questions have been raised in recent years about the European Union. The Nobel Committee’s awarding of the Peace Prize to the EU is a powerful reminder of just what the Union has done to shape history in a positive way. These Meetings were my first as World Bank president. From my discussions with Governors, Ministers, civil society representatives, and many other stakeholders, I've been impressed by the depth and breadth of views. In fact, many took to heart our campaign "What Will It Take" - and told me directly exactly what they think it will take! Many also wore our black T-shirts that had a simple phrase: End Poverty. For me, that message – End Poverty – is what I think about every day on my job as president of the World Bank Group. I think of that message and the message of boosting shared prosperity so that families or young people can have hope for a brighter future that includes a good job, access to health-care, and good education. The economic environment today is tough and very disconcerting. I believe that the World Bank Group has a role to play in all countries around the world, and all countries of the world can work with the World Bank to find solutions to some of the most difficult issues in development today. I want the Bank to be transformed from a knowledge bank to a solutions bank that will be a clearinghouse of ideas from the north and the south on how to most effectively deliver services to those who need them the most. Let me emphasize how important it is during these times to keep developing countries in the forefront. We still live in a world that has more than one billion people living in absolute poverty. We must all work to make sure that the impressive gains in Latin America, Africa, and Asia over the past generation are not lost now. In just the last few years, growth from developing countries accounted for more than half of global growth. It is in everyone’s interest that these countries continue to grow and continue to be such strong contributors to the global economy. I would like again to thank our Japanese hosts and close by highlighting the winner of the World Bank High School/Junior High School development Slogan Contest. From more than 1600 entries, the winner is Ms. Mayu Muto, from Hiroshima Prefectural Yoshida Senior High School. Her slogan was Hinkon-de Kimi-no Mirai-wa Jama Sasenai. We will not let poverty hamper your future. Thank you very much. Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.