Office of the Chief Economist, Europe and Central Asia Where We Work Europe and Central Asia brief This page in: English Русский This page in: English Русский Office of the Chief Economist, Europe and Central Asia OVERVIEW OUR TEAM PUBLICATIONS RESEARCH BLOGS ECA TALKS RESEARCH WITH IMPACT AWARDS Select a EDS Sub navigation page selecting option, leaving this page OVERVIEW OVERVIEW OUR TEAM PUBLICATIONS RESEARCH BLOGS ECA TALKS RESEARCH WITH IMPACT AWARDS EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA ECONOMIC UPDATE, FALL 2025 Jobs and Prosperity Growth in the developing economies of Europe and Central Asia is expected to slow from 3.7% in 2024 to 2.4% in 2025, driven primarily by a weaker pace of expansion in the Russian Federation. The region is also facing a serious jobs challenge, where most of the jobs created over the last 15 years have been in relatively low-skilled roles with limited earning potential. Investing in infrastructure, improving the business environment and mobilizing private capital will be critical to jumpstarting productivity, creating jobs, and building a more resilient labor market given the region’s shifting demographics. DOWNLOAD EVENT RECORDING LEARN MORE Jobs and Prosperity Europe and Central Asia Economic Update Accelerating Growth through Entrepreneurship, Technology Adoption, and Innovation Growth in the developing economies of Europe and Central Asia is expected to slow significantly to 2.5% on average in 2025-26 in the face of profound global uncertainty. To boost competitiveness and create jobs in this challenging economic environment, the region should improve business dynamism and foster its private sector by facilitating firm-level innovation, technology adoption, and better domestic competition. By prioritizing reforms that include enabling the most productive firms, deepening financial markets, and investing in R&D, the economies in the region will encourage an enterprise-driven growth model. DOWNLOAD REPORT PRESS RELEASE LEARN MORE Accelerating Growth through Entrepreneurship, Technology Adoption, and Innovation REGIONAL FLAGSHIP Greater Heights: Growing to High Income in Europe and Central Asia Since 1990, 27 countries across the globe have reached high-income status, with 10 from Europe having joined the European Union. Another 20 countries from Europe and Central Asia have found their prospects for growing to high-income troubled, with concern they may have become caught in a so-called "middle-income trap." This partly reflects the slowing pace of progress on structural reforms at home and a deteriorating global environment. This report outlines how these middle-income countries across the region can reach high-income status by adopting a 3i strategy of investment, infusion, and innovation. DOWNLOAD REPORT PRESS RELEASE LEARN MORE Greater Heights: Growing to High Income in Europe and Central Asia The Office of the Chief Economist provides guidance on strategic priorities and technical quality of economic analysis in the Europe and Central Asia region . This mission is accomplished through an analytical program that challenges conventional wisdom, takes on new, topical and controversial issues, and provides cross-sectoral and region-wide analysis, and serving as principal regional spokesperson inside and outside the Bank on strategic and economic issues facing the region. FEATURED LAUNCH Oct 09, 2025 Jobs and Prosperity in Europe and Central Asia This event presented the Fall 2025 Europe and Central Asia Economic Update and examined strategies for creating more and high-quality jobs in the region. Jobs and Prosperity in Europe and Central Asia Research with Impact Sep 30, 2025 Winners of 2025 Europe and Central Asia Research with Impact Awards The ECA Research with Impact Awards identifies the best new policy-relevant research from across the World Bank Group on topics of interest to the region. Read more about the 2025 winning research Winners of 2025 Europe and Central Asia Research with Impact Awards EVENT REPLAY Oct 17, 2024 Better Education for Stronger Growth in Europe and Central Asia Can Europe and Central Asia return to the fast convergence to the income and productivity levels of high-income economies? Governments need to unlock the creative power and human capital potential in their countries by ... Better Education for Stronger Growth in Europe and Central Asia Meet The Chief Economist Ivailo Izvorski Mr. Izvorski's research activities and publications have focused on issues related to debt, international trade and finance, and innovation and growth. Ivailo's Bio Ivailo Izvorski Contact details Office of the Chief Economist in Europe and Central Asia Email Learn More World Bank in Europe and Central Asia Macro Poverty Outlook for Europe and Central Asia Blogs This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×