Bangladesh: Connecting Minds in Higher Education --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Bangladesh: Connecting Minds in Higher Education March 19, 2014 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Ismail Ferdous/World Bank STORY HIGHLIGHTS Tertiary education in Bangladesh faces many deep-rooted and intertwined challenges. The Higher Education Quality Enhancement Project (HEQEP) aims to improve learning and research in the tertiary education sector. The project has promoted academic innovation in universities through a competitive funding mechanism, connected universities to global networks and established a fully operational digital library facility. Enhancing the quality and relevance of higher education is currently one of the issues at the top of the government’s agenda. The Higher Education Quality Enhancement Project (HEQEP) aims to bring forth both innovation and accountability within universities and lay the foundation for better learning and research in the tertiary education sector. Challenge Tertiary education faces many deep-rooted and intertwined challenges. Bangladesh apportioned about 2.1% of its GDP to education, but just 0.12% was allocated to tertiary education – a very low share by any standards. Low levels of funding leaves little money for investing in research, labs, equipment, computers, books or electronic journals, and infrastructure maintenance for improvement of teaching, learning and research. An effective mechanism to link universities’ research and industry and business, whether at home or abroad, is still absent. Weak connectivity and inadequate ICT penetration in the higher education institutions limit knowledge exchanges and research collaborations amongst academic communities at home and with international peers. Finally, there was a lack of an appropriate funding mechanism to encourage basic and applied research in the universities. Approach HEQEP promotes academic innovation in both public and private universities through a competitive funding mechanism, known as the Academic Innovation Fund (AIF). The AIF aims to establish enabling conditions to enhance the quality and relevance of teaching, learning and research in universities; and introduce efficient instruments for the allocation of additional public funds to universities with an emphasis on innovation and accountability. It has clear selection criteria and allocates resources through three competitive windows: improvement of teaching and learning, enhancement of research capabilities, and university-wide innovations. The AIF also promotes self-assessment of 25 academic programs in 15 universities as a first step towards the establishment of quality assurance mechanism for the tertiary education sub-sector. So far, 194 grants have been awarded to 27 public universities and two private universities. Ninety-six grants were given to revamp teaching and learning and help universities carry out self-assessments, 73 to enhance research capabilities and 25 grants for the establishment of institutional and library automation, campus network, improvement of laboratory facilities, and refurbishment of training institutes. The project has established the Bangladesh Research and Education Network (BdREN) to provide universities high speed dedicated connectivity. This enables teachers, researchers and students to access the latest knowledge and to engage in collaborative research across institutions of higher learning within the country and abroad. BdREN is also connected to global networks in Eurasia (TEIN 3), USA (Internet 2), Ireland (HeaNet), Continental Europe (GEANT 2), and Asia-Pacific region (APAN). A fully operational digital library facility, the UGC Digital Library (UDL), has also been established with 34 public and private universities. The UDL subscribes to electronic-resources from acclaimed international electronic journals such as ACM, Emerald and JSTOR. The project also aims to enhance transparency and accountability in the use of public resources and to build the management and institutional capacity of the higher education sector. Shehab Uddin/World Bank Results in Numbers 194 academic innovation grants awarded to 27 public and two private universities. 4 public universities and UGC connected through BdREN. 15% of students and faculty members with advanced internet connectivity. 28 public and 6 private universities accessing research databases and peer reviewed journals through UGC Digital Library (UDL). Towards the Future On February 2014, the government of Bangladesh signed an agreement worth $125 million in additional financing for the ongoing HEQEP. The additional financing will continue to support enhancement of quality and relevance of higher education by promoting academic innovation through the Academic Innovation Fund. The additional financing will also continue to bring accountability and set up better research facilities in public and private universities. RELATED WORLD BANK HEQEP Documents and Details HEQEP Additional Financing Documents and Details World Bank in Bangladesh World Bank Bangladesh on Facebook EXTERNAL BdREN - Bangladesh Research and Education Network Higher Education Quality Enhancement Project (HEQEP) - Government of Bangladesh Bangladesh South Asia Education Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.