Mariusz Krukowski Home Who We Are Experts Mariusz Krukowski Mariusz Krukowski Alternate Executive Director: EDS24, Executive Directors, EDS Mariusz Krukowski World Bank Group 1818 H Street NW Washington, DC 20433 USA mkrukowski@worldbank.org worldbank.org/eds24 Mariusz Krukowski, a Polish national, is the World Bank Group Alternate Executive Director representing Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Poland, Serbia, Switzerland, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan. A long-time civil servant and diplomat. Mariusz Krukowski recently served as Chief Advisor at the European Investment Bank, where he coordinated the preparation of the EIB Group's operational strategies and coordinated EIB assistance to Ukraine. Previously, since 2016, for the EIB, among others: he formulated priorities and positions on ECOFIN, represented the bank in the Working Group of Financial Advisors in the Council and prepared EIB positions on the multiannual financial framework. For many years he was the representative of the Minister of Finance in Brussels, where he headed the Budget and Finance Section in the Permanent Representation of Poland to the EU and coordinated the work of the Section in the field of financial services, taxes, customs, EU budget, anti-fraud, statistics, accounting, audit and financial control. He supported Poland's Chief Negotiator for the Multiannual Financial Framework 2014-2020, which ended with the granting of record funds to Poland from the cohesion fund and agricultural policy. He led negotiations on the EU budget during the Polish Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2011, resulting in the agreement of the Council's position during the first day of the Presidency. He represented Poland's interests during negotiations regarding the revision of the Stability and Growth Pact and the creation of the Banking Union. He supported the Minister of Finance, the Minister of European Affairs, and the Prime Minister in achieving strategic goals in the international arena. Mariusz Krukowski has a deep understanding of interinstitutional relations, particularly with regard to economic, financial and budgetary matters, and is well acquainted with the issues of ECOFIN, international financial institutions, especially development banks. He speaks 3 foreign languages. MORE FROM Mariusz Krukowski Publication Projects Blog Posts