World Bank Group Announces Settlement with IQVIA Consulting and Information Services India Private Limited Who We Are News PRESS RELEASE June 18, 2025 World Bank Group Announces Settlement with IQVIA Consulting and Information Services India Private Limited Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina WASHINGTON, June 18, 2025 —The World Bank Group today announced the 18-month conditional non-debarment of IQVIA Consulting and Information Services India Private Limited (IQVIA Consulting India), a private limited liability company registered in the Republic of India, in connection with fraudulent practices as part of the Nagaland Health Project in India. The project aimed to improve health services and increase their utilization by communities in specific areas of the State of Nagaland in Northeast India. Under the facts of the case, IQVIA Consulting India failed to adequately supervise its third-party expert consultants retained for the project and recklessly submitted inaccurate invoices and claims for payment to the project. This amounts to a fraudulent practice according to the World Bank’s sanctions framework. Under the conditional non-debarment, IQVIA Consulting India remains eligible to participate in Bank Group-financed projects and operations as long as it complies with its obligations under the settlement agreement. As part of the settlement agreement, IQVIA Consulting India does not contest culpability and agrees to meet specified integrity compliance conditions. These include enhancing its existing integrity compliance program and its implementation to further reflect the principles set out in the Bank Group Integrity Compliance Guidelines. IQVIA Consulting India commits to continue its ongoing cooperation with the Bank Group Integrity Vice Presidency in addition to paying restitution in the amount of US$ 200,000. Due to its substantial cooperation and voluntary remedial actions, the settlement agreement reflects a less severe sanction and reduced sanctions period. PRESS RELEASE NO: 2025/080/INT Contacts Stephanie A. Crockett External Affairs Officer scrockett@worldbank.org RELATED Nagaland Health Project Integrity Vice Presidency Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×