Introducing the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) redesigned International Energy Portal - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Back to updates Introducing the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) redesigned International Energy Portal By Crystal Carter · March 05, 2020 The U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) has redesigned its International Energy Portal to streamline navigation, simplify data presentation, and implement responsive design use. EIA based many of the redesigned aspects on customer feedback about the earlier beta release of the portal. The International Energy Portal contains EIA’s country-level energy data. Users can view and download datasets for consumption, production, trade, reserves, and carbon dioxide emissions for different fuels and energy sources. The portal also provides access to EIA’s entire library of international reports, articles, and analyses, including Country Analysis Briefs . Find data in fewer steps. Users can select and explore prepopulated, fuel-specific default tables that provide annual data on energy production, consumption, trade, and reserves. Data options allow users to change time frequency and energy units, add sources and activities, and select other countries for comparison. Customize data tables. Customizable data tables allow users to sort by energy source and activity or by country and region. Users can now see and select countries within continental regions, International Energy Agency regions, and economic groups. Tailor visualizations to user needs. Animated maps allow users to see how trends in energy production, consumption, reserves, imports, and exports have changed over time. Other visualization options include heat maps, bubble maps, and time series. Export data easily. EIA’s international information is easily downloaded as data, maps, and charts for presentations, reports, and spreadsheets. Data downloads are available in CSV and JSON formats. Application Programming Interface (API) keys are available with EIA’s Microsoft Excel and Google Sheets add-ins, which make regular data updates much easier. Users can also download static versions of charts and tables in PDF or PNG image files. About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov