Cambodia: Development news, research, data | World Bank Where We Work Cambodia This page in: English ខ្មែរ This page in: English ខ្មែរ --> The World Bank In Cambodia Over the two decades before COVID-19 struck in 2020, Cambodia blossomed economically. Having reached lower middle-income status in 2015, it set its signs on attaining upper middle-income status by 2030. Cambodia Home Overview COVID-19 COVID-19 (Coronavirus) Response The World Bank supports Cambodia to deal with the COVID-19 crisis and to strengthen the country’s economy for recovery and future resilience. To that end, the Bank is supporting a multi-pronged approach to preventing and mitigating the health impacts as well as strengthening the systems for pandemic emergency response. In addition to the Cambodia COVID-19 Emergency Response Project , the World Bank has allocated US$14 million to the Contingency Emergency Response Component of the Cambodia Health Equity and Quality Improvement Project (H-EQIP) . This allocation supports the country's COVID-19 Master Plan to meet the urgent needs to procure medical equipment and supplies, ambulances, and personal protective equipment (PPE) as well as to enhance testing capacity of the National Reference Laboratory and establish sub-national isolation and treatment centers and Emergency Operating Centers. The H-EQIP project, implemented by the Ministry of Health, regularly monitors the trends of health service utilization by poor households to ensure continued service delivery during the COVID-19 crisis while improving infection prevention and control through the national quality enhancement process. Financing from the Pandemic Emergency Facility’s issuance window has been allocated to further strengthen Cambodia’s COVID-19 response. The Cambodia Nutrition Project will focus on engaging communities and maintaining the demand for – and supply of – essential maternal and child health and nutrition services throughout the pandemic and the Cambodia Strengthening Pre-Service Education System for Health Professionals project will aim to equip health professionals with better knowledge and skills to deal with emergencies such as the COVID-19 outbreak. Beyond the health sector, several projects will focus on broader economic and social recovery. For example, in the agriculture sector, the World Bank’s support will enhance farm productivity, explore possibilities to develop new local and regional agriculture value chains, and support smallholder farmers in building their earning capacity and resilience to shocks such as COVID-19. In the transport sector, the Bank’s recently approved road project will improve road accessibility to health centers in rural areas and generate jobs for local communities during road construction and maintenance works. In education sector, the Higher Education Improvement Project (HEIP) was restructured to allocate around US$5 million to develop teaching videos to be broadcast on TV and social media channels, develop students’ worksheets, set up monitoring and evaluation systems for distant learning, and to provide school grants to print or copy worksheets for poor and disadvantaged students. The activities have benefitted more than 3 million students from kindergarten to grade 12 nationwide. 90% of Phnom Penh residents now have access to a reliable water supply through the Urban Water Supply Project. Source RELATED High-frequency monitoring of COVID-19 impacts on households in Cambodia Cambodia COVID-19 Emergency Response Project Cambodia Portfolio, November 2020 Doing Business in Cambodia Cambodia Economic Update, May 2020 MULTIMEDIA VIDEO Jun 23, 2020 COVID-19: The Road to Recovery in East Asia and the Pacific View All Multimedia Arrow COVID-19: The Road to Recovery in East Asia and the Pacific AROUND THE BANK GROUP Find out what the Bank Group's branches are doing in the region. IFC MIGA STAY CONNECTED Facebook Twitter Blog Flickr YouTube RSS Sign up for email updates In Depth Cambodia Health Equality and Quality Improvement Project – Phase 2 The project supports Cambodia's Health Equity Fund to cover health service costs and improve use of services for the poor. Cambodia Health Equality and Quality Improvement Project – Phase 2 Improving Education Quality Improving lower secondary education to meet minimum standards is the goal of a World Bank-supported project in Cambodia. Improving Education Quality Sewer Networks Improve Families’ Lives In Cambodia, most domestic wastewater is left untreated with only 11% of households connected to a sewer network. Raising awareness on the importance of wastewater treatment is crucial. Sewer Networks Improve Families’ Lives Improving Capacity of Private Water Operators From March 2018 to June 2019, the Cambodian Water Supply Association and the Ministry of Industry and Handicraft implemented a program to build capacity of 12 private water operators in Cambodia. Improving Capacity of Private Water Operators Additional Resources Country Office Contacts Phnom Penh facebook.com/WorldBankCambodia Exchange Square Building, No. 19-20, Street 106, Sangkat Wat Phnom, Khan Daun Penh, Phnom Penh Tel: +855 23 261300 Fax: + 855 23 261301-2 cambodia@worldbank.org facebook.com/WorldBankCambodia Washington 1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC 20433 Tel: +1 202-473-4709 eapnews@worldbank.org This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×