Helping Africa Turn the Corner on Malaria --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Helping Africa Turn the Corner on Malaria Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> STORY HIGHLIGHTS Malaria still kills about 850,000 people in Africa each year Anti-malaria efforts play a role in economic growth and poverty reduction The World Bank, through IDA, is directly supporting countries and catalyzing investment WASHINGTON, October 7, 2010 —Sub-Saharan Africa has made much progress against malaria in recent years, but this preventable and treatable disease still kills about 850,000 people in the region each year. Victory against malaria requires sustained funding, expanded prevention, stronger national and regional health systems, and continued research. The World Bank’s role in assisting African governments to fight malaria has included financing over 45 million bed nets in highly malarial countries such as Zambia, Benin, Nigeria, Ethiopia, and the Democratic Republic of Congo; and eight million doses of drugs to treat the disease. The Bank also helps strengthen health systems and build capacity for better results in the fight against various communicable diseases. All too often, disease control efforts have been impeded by systemic weaknesses such as inadequate human resources or weak supply chains. IDA at work against malaria The World Bank’s Malaria Booster Program—largely funded by the International Development Association (IDA), the Bank’s grant and soft loan arm that is due for replenishment—is a good example of IDA at work as it helps African countries make much-needed investments in human capital. Eighteen countries in Africa already have Malaria Booster projects. With US$200 million announced by the Bank in April 2010, seven of them—the Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Kenya, Mozambique, Nigeria, Sierra Leone, and Zambia—are on track to receive additional financing for malaria, largely to help reach the universal coverage target for bed nets set by the United Nations. While funding for malaria has risen in the past decade, more investment is needed to consolidate gains. As the financial crisis abates, the World Bank will continue to encourage countries to use replenished IDA funds for anti-malaria efforts. The Bank will also try to bring new partners on board to leverage IDA resources, as it did with Russia, which has complemented IDA funds for malaria with $16 million more for Mozambique and Zambia. “With commitments of about $762 million since 2005, we have catalyzed further investment by other donors; responded to country needs flexibly; and collaborated closely with global partners,” said Eva Jarawan, Manager of the World Bank Africa Region’s Health, Nutrition and Population unit. “This has gone a long way towards coordinated international funding for malaria and a strong focus on results.” Strong results across Africa The Bank’s direct assistance to countries has contributed to strong results across Africa. For example, in Ethiopia, household bed net ownership has risen from just five percent in 2006 to over 90 percent of households today, and data suggest a sharp decline in malaria cases and deaths. An example of the Bank’s health system strengthening work is a pilot study in Zambia (together with other partners), which shows that simple improvements to the country’s supply chain for lifesaving drugs could significantly reduce Zambia’s child mortality from malaria between 2010 and 2015. " We are happy that our Government has given us these nets. We sleep well now and our children are less sick. " Hassana Kalshom Womens Group, Gombe Supporting anti-malaria efforts in Nigeria In Nigeria, there have been significant recent achievements in against malaria: 12.4 million treated bed nets procured and distributed in seven Booster states. Share of households with at least one treated net rose from 2.4 percent in 2006 to 89.7 percent in 2010. Percentage of under-5 children who slept under a treated net the night before the last survey is 41.8 percent in 2010, up from 3.6 percent in 2006. Over 2 million doses of preventive medication distributed among pregnant women. 7.5 million doses of treatment and 10 million Rapid Diagnostic Kits (RDTs) in the pipeline. Preparing to scale up indoor residual spraying to benefit 2.8 million people. The Booster project has also recently contributed to building Nigeria’s procurement and supply chain management system and is supporting the first Malaria Indicator Survey (MIS) in the country. Using trust fund resources from Exxon Mobil, the Booster Program is helping to strengthen monitoring and evaluation capacity in countries and to collect data on activities financed by the program. Malaria and the MDGs Progress against malaria will not only help Africa meet the Millennium Development Goal to reduce communicable diseases by 2015; it will also help Africa’s growth and poverty reduction prospects in the long run. The disease is estimated to cost Africa as much as $12 billion a year in lost GDP. The World Bank is committed to help Africa stay the course on malaria. Gender Health Nutrition Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.