Youth in Latin America and the Caribbean: Lacking Opportunities or Masters of Their Own Destiny? --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News Infographic Youth in Latin America and the Caribbean: Lacking Opportunities or Masters of Their Own Destiny? September 26, 2015 This page in: English Português Español Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> What are the challenges young people in Latin America and the Caribbean face? More than half of people of working age population are between 15 and 35 years. According to experts, this opens millions of opportunities but also involves reviewing the main obstacles they face: not finishing high school on time, working in informal conditions or not being able to become masters of their own destiny. At the Annual Meetings of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, to be held in early October in Lima, Peru, youth will be one of the main protagonists. In an unprecedented event, global leaders, CEOs and young entrepreneurs will discuss the importance of youth entrepreneurship in the developing world. The conference will be held on October 8, join to participate here . This infographic illustrates the main challenges of youth in the region: Argentina Latin America and Caribbean Bolivia Chile Colombia Costa Rica Dominican Republic Ecuador El Salvador Guatemala Honduras Mexico Nicaragua Panama Paraguay Peru Uruguay Venezuela View More + RELATED WORLD BANK WB Live: Young Entrepreneurs as Drivers of Sustainable Growth --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.