The Evolving Role of Public Asset Managers in a World of Uncertainty: Key Insights from the World Bank RAMP 21st Annual Executive Forum Who We Are News FEATURE STORY May 15, 2025 The Evolving Role of Public Asset Managers in a World of Uncertainty: Key Insights from the World Bank RAMP 21st Annual Executive Forum Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Jorge Familiar, Vice Presient & Treasurer, World Bank and Ahmet Ismaili, Governor, Central Bank of the Republic of Kosovo in a fireside chat, "Evolving Roles of Public Asset Management" World Bank Group 2025 Central bank reserve managers, along with public asset managers at public pension funds, sovereign wealth funds, and international financial institutions, attended the World Bank’s Reserve Advisory & Management Partnership (RAMP) 21 st Annual Executive Forum for Policymakers and Senior Officials , held in Washington, DC, to address common challenges, share effective responses, and expand their peer-to-peer networks. RAMP’s flagship event, the Executive Forum, occurs annually in Washington, immediately following the IMF-World Bank Spring Meetings. It hosts central bank governors, heads of pension and sovereign wealth funds, and leading scholars as presenters and participants. The two-day event gathered more than 119 senior-level participants from 67 countries, representing 88 central banks, sovereign wealth funds, public pension funds, and international financial institutions. Among the attendees, 44 were governors, deputy governors, board members, and chief executive officers. Over the course of the two-day event, attendees explored key topics for public asset managers, from macroeconomic outlooks to asset management fundamentals, all framed by the growing uncertainty in today’s financial landscape. The event boasted a lineup of keynote speakers, including Anne-Marie Slaughter, Chief Executive Officer at New America, Barry Eichengreen, George C. Pardee & Helen N. Pardee Chair and Distinguished Professor of Economics and Political Science at UC Berkeley, Eswar Prasad, Professor of Economics at Cornell University and Senior Fellow at Brookings Institution, and Patrick Honohan, former Governor of the Central Bank of Ireland. Katarzyna Zajdel-Kurowska, Director, Asset Management & Advisory, Ayhan Kose, Deputy Chief Economist and Director of Prospects Group of the World Bank, and Torsten Slok, Partner and Chief Economist, Apollo, in a panel, "Macro Challenges and Opportunities: Charting the Future for Public Asset Management" World Bank Group 2025 Participants engaged in dynamic discussions, sharing insights and strategies for effectively managing public assets amid rapidly evolving economic conditions. Below are some of the key takeaways: 1. Strong institutions, particularly a robust central bank, are critical in mobilizing and managing financial resources for sustainable development. Central banks have played a foundational role in driving economic progress by maintaining financial stability and implementing internationally aligned policies. Beyond their traditional functions, central banks have prioritized internal governance reforms to boost transparency and accountability, to build public trust, and to attract foreign investment. Similarly, central banks’ efforts in embracing digitalization are crucial in modernizing the financial sector by enhancing efficiency, broadening access to services, and enabling integration with international financial systems. 2. Public asset managers are facing an exceptionally challenging global landscape shaped by rising uncertainty, trade tensions, and geopolitical risks, exerting significant pressure on their investment mandates. The concern is that these disruptions could have lasting implications and trigger permanent systemic consequences, especially among emerging market economies, raising critical questions about their long-term impact on global markets. This unpredictable environment is also raising questions about the future of global reserve currencies and trade dynamics, making it even more difficult for public asset managers to navigate volatility. 3. Long-term thinking and flexibility are key for public investors navigating the current short-term volatility, as scenario planning and preparing for multiple outcomes become essential tools in today’s uncertain environment. With policy unpredictability now a permanent feature of the global landscape, dynamic scenario-based approaches to risk management are vital. Prioritizing liquidity and high-quality credit, while making strategic adjustments, may help strike the right balance between near-term caution and long-term objectives. 4. Public sector investors are re-evaluating the currency composition of their portfolios. While no viable substitute matches the U.S. dollar’s liquidity and global status, alternatives such as the euro, renminbi, SDRs, gold, or CBDCs are gaining attention—even if observed changes have been limited. In this evolving landscape, public asset managers are closely monitoring global developments and reassessing how best to balance stability with strategic diversification. 5. Gold is regaining strategic relevance amid geopolitical risk, yet its limitations as a reserve asset remain evident. Rising uncertainty bolsters gold’s role as a safe haven, but its utility is constrained by high volatility, a lack of income generation and collateral value, limited liquidity, and high storage and insurance costs. While it has gained appeal, particularly among some emerging markets in response to financial instability or sanctions, it remains a secondary asset in most central bank portfolios. 6. Artificial intelligence and technological innovation offer tremendous potential for public asset managers, but adoption and limitations are being explored. These technologies have the capacity to transform key functions like asset allocation, compliance, risk management, and reporting by automating processes, integrating diverse and alternative datasets, and supporting decision-making. The rise of private digital money and CBDCs could accelerate financial inclusion, but they are unlikely to replace fiat systems. However, challenges such as data quality, transparency, and privacy concerns, along with the complexity of implementation, limit the full integration of these technologies. Public asset managers are carefully exploring how to leverage these capabilities to enhance efficiency while managing their limitations. World Bank RAMP's Mission & Impact The Reserve Advisory & Management Partnership is a program developed within the World Bank Treasury that delivers advisory services, hosts executive training, and provides asset management services—all within a global network of public asset managers. Established in 2001, the Partnership serves over 85 members, including central banks, international financial institutions, pension funds, and sovereign wealth funds. RAMP is a trusted advisor to members and delivers advisory and training services to implement sound practices in reserves and public sector asset management. RAMP hosts an annual program of executive technical workshops, leveraging Treasury’s 75 years of experience and collective knowledge, and sponsors external training. RAMP also delivers asset management services and convenes events that build community and promote knowledge sharing among public sector asset managers. RAMP is evolving for its members. The Partnership has reached a record number of institutions and continues to broaden its scope to include more types of public asset managers. This expansion allows RAMP to offer advisory services and training in new areas, helping members address their ever-changing challenges. RELATED World Bank RAMP World Bank Treasury Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×