Brazilian projects among the most inspiring in the world --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Brazilian projects among the most inspiring in the world August 3, 2012 This page in: English Português Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> In Bahia state, a World Bank project seeks to improve neonatal health care and access to clean water, with the aim of reducing infant mortality rate. Ivan Baldivieso / AGECOM-BA / Handout. STORY HIGHLIGHTS The 100 most innovative initiatives in the world were listed by KPMG, a management consultancy. One of the projects was signed by The World Bank last July and will be implemented in Bahia state. Project for Metro Line 4, in São Paulo, is one of very few urban rail public-private partnerships in the world. Four initiatives from the World Bank Group in Brazil were listed among the 100 most innovative projects in the world: Bahia Integrated Health and Water Management , São Paulo Metro – Line 4 , and the IFC-supported public-private partnerships for Bahia Suburbio Hospital and Belo Horizonte schools . The recognition was given by KPMG , one of the world’s largest management consultancies. An independent panel of judges analyzed hundreds of projects against the criteria of scale, feasibility, technical or financial complexity, innovation and impact on society. "The projects are inspiring in that they use innovative funding models to tackle infrastructure problems and improve the well-being of Brazilians," said Debbie Wetzel, World Bank director for Brazil. Accountable results One of such models, called results based financing, will be applied in Bahia’s Integrated Health and Water Management Project, signed last July. Its main goal is to increase access to clean water and sanitation to the population of 10 municipalities, and to improve the quality of neonatal health care in 25 hospitals of the Northeastern state. “This is a project that pays for results, but only after a third party certifies achievements of interventions aimed at reducing key causes of the state’s infant mortality rate”, explained project manager Fernando Lavadenz. A different funding model was used for São Paulo Metro – Line 4: a public-private partnership (PPP). “It was the first project in Brazil using a 2004 PPP legislation and one of very few urban rail PPPs in the world. Also, it is a landmark project in terms of urban development”, stated project manager Georges Darido. When it is fully up and running, in 2013, the line will increase Metro ridership by over 1 million passengers per day, to a total of 4.8 million. " The projects are inspiring in that they use innovative funding models to tackle infrastructure problems and improve the well-being of Brazilians " Debbie Wetzel World Bank director for Brazil Improved services Bahia Suburbio Hospital and Belo Horizonte Schools, both IFC-supported projects, were as well named as models of how PPPs can improve public services in Brazil. Brazil’s first education-related PPP was structured in 2011. The City of Belo Horizonte mobilized US$ 80 million and partnered with a consortium to build and manage 32 kindergartens and five elementary schools. The Suburbio Hospital project, launched in 2009 as Brazil’s first health public-private partnership, provides services in one of the country’s most underserved urban districts. Approximately 1 million people live in the area. In the four projects, the structure and impact over Brazil’s population were praised by the judges – the Planning secretary of Parana state, Cassio Taniguchi, included. “By prioritizing investments in urban mobility and sanitation, they become a model for other state, country and worldwide initiatives.” RELATED WORLD BANK Brazil - Home page Brazil - News and views Brazil Health Urban Development Water Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.