Office of the Chief Economist, East Asia and Pacific --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work East Asia Pacific Office of the Chief Economist, East Asia and Pacific Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> EAP's exports now face higher trade restrictions, elevated policy uncertainty, and slowing global growth. And its workers must cope with the growing use of robots, AI, and digital platforms. Explore "Jobs" to learn how reforms can expand economic opportunities and improve human capacities to generate better jobs. Click here to access the report's webpage. Previous Next Productivity and Technology in East Asia and Pacific Learn more Robots, AI and Digital Platforms in East Asia and Pacific Learn more Digital Technologies and Policy Reform in East Asia and Pacific Learn more Decarbonizing Development in East Asia and Pacific Learn more The Office of the Chief Economist conducts economic analysis and provides guidance on strategic economic priorities in the East Asia and Pacific Region (EAP) . This mission is accomplished through a wide-ranging analytical program that takes on new, topical and controversial issues, provides region-wide and cross-sectoral analysis, and addresses the policy priorities of EAP’s fast-growing and diverse economies. The Office also serves as the principal spokesperson inside and outside the Bank on economic issues facing the region. Other reports in the series Fixing the Foundation The Innovation Imperative EAP Chief Economist Office Economic Updates All reports Research Events RELATED East Asia and Pacific Chief Economist Team East Asia and Pacific Chief Economist Research Center East Asia and Pacific Gender Innovation Lab (EAPGIL) East Asia and Pacific Country Economic Updates Macro Poverty Outlook for East Asia and Pacific East Asia Pacific --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.