Event | África na Actualidade: Como Dinamizar a Criação de Emprego em África Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home Notícias África na Actualidade: Como Dinamizar a Criação de Emprego em África Share Sobre o evento Especialistas Todos os anos, 11 milhões de jovens africanos procuram trabalho, mas apenas 3 milhões de empregos remunerados são criados. Este evento, baseado no Relatório África’s Pulse de Outubro de 2025, abordará como criar empregos de qualidade em larga escala, através da análise de sectores com potencial e dos pilares que sustentam o crescimento económico e o emprego, com especial enfoque na energia. A energia é a espinha dorsal da criação de emprego — alimentando empresas, impulsionando a produtividade e o desenvolvimento do capital humano. O acesso a energia acessível e fiável, conforme previsto no ambicioso programa Missão 300, pode desbloquear novas oportunidades para as empresas, aumentar a produtividade em diversos sectores e expandir empregos dignos até às zonas rurais mais remotas. Participe na Conversa! Queremos ouvir a sua opinião! Siga-nos no X e no Facebook , e partilhe os seus pensamentos, perguntas e ideias sobre energia e criação de emprego em África utilizando a hashtag #AfricaSOR. Mantenhamos a discussão viva antes, durante e após o evento! Anna Bjerde Managing Director of Operations, World Bank Anna Bjerde oversees the World Bank’s operations across developing and emerging markets with the goal of stepping up the World Bank Group’s impact by creating more and better jobs as a pathway out of poverty. Under her leadership, the World Bank Group has achieved record levels of financing in 2025 and launched bold new initiatives, including Mission 300 to bring electricity to 300 million people in Africa by 2030. Learn More Dr. Situmbeko Musokotwane Minister of Finance and National Planning, Zambia Hon. Dr. Situmbeko Musokotwane, MP, has served as Zambia’s Minister of Finance and National Planning since August 2021. He previously served in the same portfolio from 2008 to 2011. In his current portfolio, he has been at the forefront of spearheading Zambia’s economic transformation agenda, securing an IMF program and leading Zambia’s external debt restructuring efforts. Dr. Musokotwane has implemented fiscal policies to foster investment, accelerate growth, and enhance public services. He strengthened fiscal decentralization through an increased Constituency Development Fund (CDF) and prioritized timely pensions and cash transfers for vulnerable groups. He holds a Doctorate in Monetary Economics from the University of Konstanz (Germany), a Master’s from the University of Dar-Es-Salaam (Tanzania), and a Bachelor’s from the University of Zambia. Augustine Kpehe Ngafuan Minister of Finance and Development Planning, Liberia Mr. Augustine Kpehe Ngafuan is Liberia’s Minister of Finance and Development Planning, bringing over two decades of expertise in public service, financial management, and international development. He has played a pivotal role in Liberia’s economic transformation, notably leading the country to the HIPC Completion Point, which resulted in the cancellation of nearly US$5 billion in external debt and restored Liberia’s access to international financing. Ngafuan has spearheaded major infrastructure initiatives and advanced public financial management reforms, including the adoption of international accounting standards and digital public infrastructure projects supported by the World Bank. He holds an MBA from the University of Rochester and a BBA from the University of Liberia. Known for his consultative leadership and innovative strategy, Ngafuan is a key figure in shaping Liberia’s development agenda and regional engagement. Dr. Adelaide Retselisitsoe Matlanyane Minister of Finance and Development Planning, Lesotho Dr. Adelaide Retselisitsoe Matlanyane is the Minister of Finance and Development Planning for Lesotho, serving as the government’s chief financial official and authorized representative in international agreements. Previously, she was Governor of the Central Bank of Lesotho (2012–2021), becoming the first woman to hold that position. Dr. Matlanyane is a respected economist with a PhD in Economics from the University of Pretoria. She has led financial sector reforms, promoted financial inclusion, and advocated for women’s access to finance. Her leadership is recognized regionally, and she continues to drive key development initiatives in Lesotho, including disaster risk financing and MSME support. Andrew Dabalen Chief Economist for Africa, World Bank Andrew Dabalen is the World Bank’s Africa Region Chief Economist since July 1, 2022. The Chief Economist is responsible for providing guidance on strategic priorities and the technical quality of economic analysis in the region, as well as for developing major regional economic studies, among other roles. Learn More Esayas Woldemariam Hailu CEO of Asky Airlines Mr. Esayas W. HAILU is currently CEO of Asky Airlines operating in West, Central and South Africa, from its base in Lomé, Togo, since May 2022. In his capacity as CEO, he identifies, develop, and implements strategic goals and objectives of ASKY and fulfill its governance function. He provides direction and leadership toward the achievement of the organization's mission and strategy. He maintains and develops policies and procedures, organizational culture, values and reputation within the industry and with all staff, customers, suppliers, partners and regulatory bodies. He ensures the sustainable management of Human Resources, Operations, Product/Network, Finances, Safety/Security, Brand, Communications, Controls, and overall Performances. Denis Karema Co-Founder and CEO of SokoFresh Agri Innovations East Africa Denis Karema is the Co-Founder and CEO of SokoFresh Agri Innovations East Africa, a pioneering agritech enterprise delivering solar-powered cold chain solutions to smallholder farmers. Under his leadership, SokoFresh has drastically reduced post-harvest losses to under 5%, provided markets for 10,000+ smallholder farmers, whilst implementing several variants of the business model to make cold storage accessible across multiple regions, supply chains, and farmer profiles. The work of SokoFresh at the first mile is also a catalyst for jobs in rural Kenya, and the company provides 1,000+ direct gig and full-time jobs annually. Denis’ work has been recognized with the 2022 Ashden Award for Energising Agriculture and showcased at global platforms such as Fruit Logistica. Sivi Malukisa CEO of ManiTech Congo Sivi Malukisa is an entrepreneur passionate about the food industry. Since 2019, she has been the President and founder of the agro-industrial company ManiTech CONGO SASU, whose factory produces a variety of food products from local raw materials. She received a silver medal for merit in science, art, and literature from the national chancellery for the results of her research on processed Congolese foods. She has also received the following awards: Resilient Entrepreneur (2023, I&F), Tulime Woman Entrepreneur (2023, Ketsia Olangi Foundation), and Congolese Women Excellentia (2024, Alpha Perle Foundation). She is a member of the Economic Commission of FDEC (Exceptional Women of Congo), founder of "MADE IN 243," an association bringing together Congolese industrialists, and co-founder of ACPRH, the Congolese Association of Human Resources Professionals—the largest human resources association in the DRC—where she serves as vice president. Sivi Malukisa is also a mentor and coach in entrepreneurship for numerous associations. Ethiopis Tafara Regional Vice President for Africa, International Finance Corporation (IFC) Ethiopis Tafara is IFC’s regional Vice President for Africa. In this capacity, he oversees all investment and advisory operations in a region with a committed portfolio of $17 billion and nearly 800 staff working to expand the private sector’s role in addressing urgent development challenges in the financial, manufacturing, agribusiness and services, and infrastructure industries. Previously, Mr. Tafara served as the Vice President, Chief Risk, Legal & Sustainability Officer and Partnerships for the World Bank Group’s Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA), where he was responsible for the supervision and oversight of MIGA’s Finance and Risk Management Group, the Economics & Sustainability Group, and the Legal Affairs & Claims Group, in addition to overseeing MIGA Partnerships. Learn More Nozipho Tshabalala Moderator Nozipho Mbanjwa-Tshabalala is the CEO of the Conversation Strategists, where she moderates global conversations that are designed to have measurable outcomes. She is known as the go-to moderator for presidential and high-level panel conversations globally. She has moderated conversations for global bodies including the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the International Labour Organisation, the United Nations, the African Union, governments and multinationals around the world. Learn More Links Relacionados Publicação: Africa’s Pulse (Outubro 2025) A Missão 300 está a Impulsionar África: Ligando 300 milhões de Pessoas à Electricidad Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×