Open Data Online Learning for Producers, Users, and Policymakers Who We Are News FEATURE STORY October 4, 2018 Open Data Online Learning for Producers, Users, and Policymakers Email Print Tweet Share Share LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Open Data is the idea that some data should be publicly available and usable, and this idea has engendered a growing movement that attempts to remove technical and legal barriers to the use of public data and realize that data’s potential social and economic benefits. Open data initiatives have been gaining ground, and over 500 Open Data catalogs are now in operation around the globe. However, many organizations, including in government, may be unfamiliar with open data and its impacts, or lack the knowledge to design and implement open data programs effectively. This is often especially true in developing countries, where capacity can be low and access to the latest learning resources is often limited. "Open data initiatives have been gaining ground, and over 500 Open Data catalogs are now in operation around the globe. " The World Bank’s Global Indicators Group & Development Data Group, in partnership with the Open Learning Campus (OLC), has developed a series of e-learning courses for professionals, policymakers, and users of open data. Each course in the series is designed for a distinct group of learners. The courses provide technical skills, extensive examples and illustrative case studies, with an emphasis on open data in developing countries. Three courses are currently available online on the OLC: Open Data for Data Producers provides a broad overview of Open Data principles and best practices for data producers. It empowers data managers and technical staff with the skills to contribute to the Open Data community. This course is primarily intended for managers and technical staff involved in the production, management, and curation of data, particularly within government ministries. It assumes no prior knowledge of Open Data or specific technical skills. Upon completion, users may take an online assessment test to obtain a completion certificate from the Open Learning Campus. Enroll now at: https://olc.worldbank.org/content/open-data-data-producers-self-paced Open Data for Data Users provides a broad overview of Open Data principles and best practices from the standpoint of a data producer and empowers data managers and technical staff with the background and skills to contribute to the Open Data community. This course is primarily intended for managers and technical staff involved in the production, management, and curation of data, particularly within government ministries. It assumes no prior knowledge of Open Data or specific technical skills. Upon completion, users may take an online assessment test to obtain a completion certificate from Open Learning Campus. Enroll now at https://olc.worldbank.org/content/open-data-data-users-self-paced Open Data for Policymakers provides a broad overview of Open Data principles and best practices from the standpoint of a data producer and empowers data managers and technical staff with the background and skills to contribute to the Open Data community. This course is primarily intended for managers and technical staff involved in the production, management, and curation of data, particularly within government ministries. It assumes no prior knowledge of Open Data or specific technical skills. Upon completion, users may take an online assessment test to obtain a completion certificate from Open Learning Campus. Enroll now at: https://olc.worldbank.org/content/open-data-policymakers-self-paced-0 Api Api Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->