Reimbursable Advisory Services in Russia --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work Russia Reimbursable Advisory Services in Russia This page in: English Русский Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Reimbursable Advisory Services (RAS) are programs offered by the World Bank to its clients in middle and high-income countries. Unlike lending products, RAS is an instrument developed to deliver advisory services to eligible clients requiring services that cannot be fully funded from the Bank’s country program. Reimbursable Advisory Services in Russia DOWNLOAD PDF: English | Russian READ ONLINE ON ISSUU : English | Russian The World Bank Group, Russia Country Office 2017 What are reimbursable advisory services (RAS)? RAS bring global knowledge and connections to customized advisory services, including analytical work, capacity building and project-related services. Since 2007, the World Bank has fulfilled globally 800+ requests for RAS in numerous sectors. Over 40 Russian regions currently partner with the World Bank. 94% of clients who used the RAS service would use it again, thanks to the unique combination. What support can our global experts offer? A team of internationally recognized experts work closely with the client to ensure the work is appropriate to the local context and meets the client’s goals and requirements. These customized packages take many forms, including: Analytics and Diagnostics Impact Evaluation Knowledge Sharing Policy Advice Training Program Implementation Who is eligible to benefit? Governments Subnational governments Multilateral Institutions NGOs State-owned enterprises Non-for-profit Private Associations The RAS portfolio in Russia The World Bank’s RAS activities have benefited more than 50 of Russia’s regions over the last 10 years. Since 2007, the World Bank has entered into RAS agreements with federal and regional authorities in a wide range of areas that are well aligned with Russia’s development challenges. One of the areas of early demand for advisory services was in support of a large-scale project to expand the St. Petersburg Pulkovo airport through a public-private partnership. Pulkovo attracted more than €1.2 billion in private investments and was awarded the title of «Global PPP Deal of the Year» by Infrastructure Investors in 2011. As international knowledge and experience are critical success factors in many fields (including such traditionally «domestic» domains as education, health, and social protection), the World Bank and its advisory services have built their lead in global knowledge provision. During the past two years, demand has been especially strong for advisory services to improve the investment climate, sharpen economic policy, improve health and education systems, and empower local initiatives. Providing global expertise to Russia The World Bank Group's Global Practices bring together knowledge and expertise in the sectors vital to economic and social development at the national and subnational levels. Their goal is to solve the toughest global and local development challenges—building an enabling environment for business, strong financial systems, efficient public administration, effective systems of higher education, and a modern responsive healthcare system. The Global Practices are distinguished by their ability to access global expertise and deploy it at all levels, and to bring together experts of diverse backgrounds in a single team to work with clients on multisectoral challenges. Energy and Extractives In energy, the practice focuses on infrastructure, efficiency, access to off-grid power, and generation of power from renewable sources. In the extractive industries, the salient issues are attracting and managing responsible investments, mitigating and adapting to climate change, enhancing local input in resource exploitation, developing resource corridors, and protecting biodiversity. Improving the Utilization of Flared Associated Petroleum Gas (PDF) Saving by Conserving: Energy Efficiency in The Public Sector (PDF) Environment and Natural Resources With access to unmatched economy-wide knowledge and expertise, the practice assists governments and the societies they represent in maximizing the sustainable use of natural capital for inclusive, green growth while minimizing pollution of air, water, and soil. Expertise in natural-capital accounting is an essential component of that enterprise. Sustainable Management of the Environment and Natural Resources (PDF) Developing Regional and Municipal Policies and Strategies (PDF) Transport and ICT The practice’s role in the transport and ICT sectors is to promote policies, institutions, and investments that will meet the burgeoning demand for electronic connectivity (data and voice; wired and wireless) and support modes of transportation (of people and goods) that are economically, environmentally, and socially sustainable. Areas of emphasis include innovative financing (such as public-private partnerships), intelligent transport, digital services, IT-based industry, and speedier transfer of technology. Empowering The Digital Economy To Make Government More Efficient (PDF) Governance Citizens’ demands for more and better services has led governments to look for more efficient ways to use resources. Specific lines of the practice’s work include revenue administration (tax and customs), performance budgeting and management, transparent government, and citizen oversight. Grouped within the practice are experts in public sector management, governance and anti-corruption, procurement, financial management, social accountability, and judicial reform. Budget Transparency and Citizen Participation: Instruments for Achieving Good Governance (PDF) Finance and Markets The practice works to promote financial stability and to develop diversified, efficient, and inclusive financial systems by addressing the most pressing financial sector challenges, such as developing a sound financial infrastructure and regulatory framework, establishing local capital markets, promoting private sector development, and expanding access to financial services for individuals and small businesses. The practice provides analytical and advisory services to promote financing for infrastructure, housing, and small and medium-size enterprises. Supporting Financial Sector Stability and Development (PDF) Macroeconomics and Fiscal Management The practice delivers policy advice, analytical tools, and training on (i) macro-fiscal frameworks aligned with the goals of reducing extreme poverty and boosting sharing prosperity; (ii) sustainable fiscal and debt policies and efficient, effective government spending; (iii) growth analytics and policies to start, sustain, and boost growth; and (iv) the impact of trade, global crises, and other developments on growth and the government’s fiscal position. Strengthening Governments’ Capacity to Manage Debt (PDF) Poverty The practice helps countries diagnose the causes of poverty and map out paths to shared prosperity. Often in tandem with other global practices, it supports World Bank Group teams in conducting policy analytics and in enhancing the poverty- and equityrelated effect of policies and investments supported by World Bank lending. The practice also builds the capacity of countries to measure poverty and monitor the welfare outcomes of policies. Finally, it tracks regional and global poverty and progress toward promoting shared prosperity. Balancing Equity and Efficiency Through Fiscal Policy (PDF) Trade and Competitiveness The practice analyzes domestic markets and their connections to global markets, identifying factors that encourage entrepreneurship, innovation, trade, and the growth of firms. It provides policy advice, diagnostics, and implementation support in the areas of (i) competitiveness, trade, and integration; (ii) productivity and «spatial growth solutions» (growth poles and corridors); (iii) innovation and entrepreneurship (particularly for women and youth); and (iv) regulation, public-private dialogue, and the business climate. Improving Markets Through Effective Competition Policies (PDF) Making The Most of Global Value Chains (PDF) Enhancing Competitiveness and Exports Through Innovation and Clusters (PDF) Attracting Investment and Maximizing Its Local Impact (PDF) Education The practice helps client countries provide basic education of high-quality for all children and youth, beginning in early childhood. It also supports education for the knowledge economy through analytical work, collection and curation of evidence, and the design and implementation of learning programs. Developing World-Class Universities (PDF) Strengthening Early Childhood Development Systems (PDF) Building Assessment Capacity For Better Educational Outcomes (PDF) Health, Nutrition, and Population The Practice provides financing, state-of-the-art analysis, and policy advice to help countries expand access to good, affordable health care. It also prioritizes protecting people from falling into poverty or becoming poorer due to illness and it promotes investments in all sectors that form the foundation of healthy societies. Reforming Health Care and Maximizing Its Local Impact (PDF) Social Protection and Labor Three long-established globally renowned practice areas of the social protection and labor group are (i) social safety nets and social assistance; (ii) pensions and social insurance (contributory social programs and social security); and (iii) labor-market programs and regulation (training and skills, wage subsidies, apprenticeship, intermediation). Youth employment is an emerging focus of the third practice. A cross-cutting practice group on social protection and labor systems emphasizes «delivery systems» such as identification, eligibility/targeting, payments, governance, and monitoring and evaluation. Maximizing Equity Resilience, and Opportunity in Social Protection Systems (PDF) Toward Participatory Budgeting and Other Forms of Local Citizen Engagement (PDF) RAS Projects in Russia View the map > RELATED LEARN MORE Reimbursable Advisory Services in Europe and Central Asia RAS Results in Russia Previous 1 / 2 Next Video VIDEO Budget Literacy in Russia Video VIDEO Russia: Local Initiatives Support Program (LISP) View all results in Russia » Russia Europe and Central Asia CONTACT US The World Bank Office in Russia 36/1 Bolshaya Molchanovka st., 121069, Moscow, Russia T: +7 (495) 745-7000 E: rasrussia@worldbank.org --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.