PPPs for policy making: a visual guide to using data from the ICP International Comparison Program (ICP) Briefs PPPs for policy making: a visual guide to using data from the ICP - Chapter 8: Energy and climate Email Print Tweet Share Share LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> This page is optimized for viewing in a desktop browser. Mobile device users may prefer to view a pdf of the publication with links to interactive visualizations and access to underlying data. Energy efficiency Energy efficiency is key to strategies seeking to guarantee secure, sustainable, and inclusive economic growth, boost competitiveness and welfare, and to reduce the environmental footprint of the energy system. Countries have pledged to double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency by 2030, as articulated by Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) target 7.3 , by making energy efficiency measures a policy and investment priority. The energy intensity level of primary energy, defined as the ratio of energy supply to PPP-based GDP, is the official SDG indicator used for measuring progress towards this target and is an indication of how much energy is used to produce one unit of economic output. It is a proxy for the efficiency with which a country is able to use energy to produce economic output. A lower ratio indicates that less energy is used to produce one unit of output. Using PPP-based GDP allows cross-country comparisons and map 8.1 shows the variation of energy intensity across countries. Another published indicator of energy efficiency is PPP-based GDP per kilogram of energy use. Figure 8.1 shows the change over time of this efficiency measure by income group. RELATED MAIN PAGE Acknowledgments Abbreviations Introduction Uses and limitations of Purchasing Power Parities Chapter 1: The size of the economy and price levels Size of the economy Per capita measures Price levels Subnational analyses Chapter 2: Poverty and inequality Poverty Inequality and shared prosperity Chapter 3: Trade and competitiveness Competitiveness Market convergence Productivity Chapter 4: Labor costs, wages, and social safety nets Labor costs Wages Social safety nets Chapter 5: Food and nutrition Food security and nutrition Food consumption Chapter 6: Health Health expenditures Health outcomes Chapter 7: Education Education expenditures Education outcomes Chapter 8: Energy and climate Energy efficiency Emissions and climate change Chapter 9: Infrastructure Investment Transport Information and communication technology Research and development Chapter 10: Human Development Human Development Index Gender Development Index Better Life Index Chapter 11: Administrative uses Administrative uses Technical note Presentation of data Concepts and definitions ICP classification of expenditures and indicators Further resources Annex References Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->