World Bank President Congratulates Dr Mohamed Morsi as Egypt's Newly Elected President --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News OPINION World Bank President Congratulates Dr Mohamed Morsi as Egypt's Newly Elected President June 25, 2012 This page in: English العربية Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> World Bank President Robert B. Zoellick Washington, June 25, 2012 — World Bank Group President Robert B. Zoellick today congratulated Dr. Mohamed Morsi and the people of Egypt for the election of the country’s first leader through a democratic process. "This is an important step along Egypt's path to democracy," said Zoellick . "It is an historic moment for Egypt and for the entire Arab world. Egyptian citizens, in particular young people, stepped forward in the tumultuous January of 2011, and they will look to Dr. Morsi as the President-elect to bring together a new government. The World Bank Group looks forward to supporting the new government as it embraces the aspirations of all citizens. Egypt has tremendous economic promise. It also has the possibility to seek inclusive growth that will create jobs and to bring together citizens from all walks of life with the 'freedom and dignity' that has been the rallying cry of change." Media Contacts In Washington Lara Saade Tel : 202-473-9887 lsaade@worldbank.org In Egypt Eman Wahby Tel : 202-2574-1670 ewahby@worldbank.org Egypt Home Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.