Poland: Managing Sub-national Debt in Difficult Times --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Poland: Managing Sub-national Debt in Difficult Times October 19, 2012 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Examining the impact of the current global crisis on debt and debt management at Poland's sub-national level. STORY HIGHLIGHTS The global economic crisis has highlighted the importance of effective debt management to mitigate the effects of external shocks. High level and inappropriate debt structures could become sources of vulnerability to an economy and a financial system. To ensure long term economic development and fiscal sustainability, it is essential to build strong capacity at the sub-national level in debt and public finance management. Sub-national debt management in difficult times was the theme of a World Bank conference held in Warsaw on 15-16 October, 2012, which examined the impact of the current global crisis on debt and debt management at the sub-national level in Poland. Major issues discussed included the use and limitations of risk indicators in debt management, key factors influencing decisions on how to finance a deficit, the challenges of implementing medium-term financial plans, as well as the roles and responsibilities of debt managers. In addition, the conference explored current and topical issues in sub-national public finance, and facilitated a dialogue on ways for Polish local authorities to strengthen debt and financial management, including managing market risks, optimizing debt and investment portfolios, and improving medium term financial planning. Panelists and participants included representatives of the central government (Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Regional Development, Ministry of Administration and Digitization), treasurers and directors of debt departments from nine regions and eight of Poland’s biggest cities, as well as academia. " The conference has been an opportunity to discuss among practitioners, to share perspectives within Poland, as well as to learn from international experience. This has been a very substantive two-day event, focused on dealing with practical, day-to-day challenges, as they affect sub-national governments, as well on reflecting about the longer-term aspects of public finance management. " Emilia Skrok World Bank senior economist Mrs. Nancy Kopp, Maryland State Treasurer, and Mr. Luc Webster, Treasurer in the Greater London Authority, made key-note speeches focused on good practices in debt-management. The World Bank's representation was led by Yvonne M. Tsikata, Director for Poverty Reduction and Economic Management with the World Bank's Europe and Central Asia Region. RELATED WORLD BANK Debt Management Europe and Central Asia EXTERNAL Ministry of Finance, Poland Ministry of Regional Development, Poland Ministry of Administration and Digitization, Poland (Polish) Poland Europe and Central Asia Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.