Hydrosurvey Data Archive for Federal Navigation Projects - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Back to maritime , updates Hydrosurvey Data Archive for Federal Navigation Projects By Marin Kress · July 27, 2021 The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) performs hydrographic surveys (hydrosurveys) for federal navigation projects around the U.S. Federal navigation projects include an estimated 25,000 miles of channels and form a key part of U.S. maritime infrastructure in both coastal and riverine areas. Hydrosurveys provide information about channel bathymetry which is critical for safe navigation by mariners, as well as a historical record of how channels change over time due to sediment deposition (shoaling) and sediment removal (dredging). The USACE eHydro program provides a standardized archive of available hydrosurveys from across the country all in one place. The USACE eHydro website includes the ability to search on a map to see where hydrosurveys are available, and when the most recent survey was conducted – an important detail since not all channels are surveyed with the same frequency. Users can download the latest PDF Plotsheet for a channel, or download the underlying data for use in other geospatial software programs. USACE Hydrographic Surveys page on Data.Gov: https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/usace-hydrographic-surveys USACE Hydrographic Surveys Main Page with Interactive Map: https://www.arcgis.com/apps/opsdashboard/index.html#/4b8f2ba307684cf597617bf1b6d2f85d USACE Hydrographic Surveys Data Download Page: https://geospatial-usace.opendata.arcgis.com/datasets?group\_ids=df70bc1371e3468b902e657cd26fc91c By Marin Kress, Research Scientist, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov