Institutionalization of Community-Driven Development --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Understanding Poverty Topics Community-Driven Development publication Institutionalization of Community-Driven Development Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Over the past 10 years, many Community-Driven Development (CDD) programs have scaled up nationally. As a result, several governments have begun to put in place various laws, regulations and policies institutionalizing to varying degrees CDD principles and practices. The World Bank’s CDD Global Solutions Group (CDD GSG) has received requests from World Bank country teams and government counterparts to help them learn from other countries’ experiences. Responding to their requests, the CDD GSG has collected examples from 11 countries in Africa, South Asia, and East Asia and the Pacific, showcasing the development of laws, regulations, and policies that have been influenced by CDD programs or cases whereby CDD programs are helping to give meaning to existing laws. Countries include: Afghanistan, Benin, Cambodia, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Kenya, Mongolia, Philippines, Senegal, and Timor-Leste . Each country case study consists of three categories: (1) country brief; (2) laws, policies and regulations; and (3) background documents. This is an evolving exercise, and we plan to cover cases from other regions in the future. If you wish to contribute a country case or have questions, please contact the CDD Global Solutions Group. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ACKNOWLEDGEMENT The production and compilation of the information contained in this webpage for the Institutionalization of Community Driven Development study were carried out by Megumi Makisaka and Susan Wong from the World Bank CDD Global Solutions Group. We wish to thank our colleagues who contributed to the development and production of this important set of knowledge pieces. Contributors include: Charles Annor-Frempong, Hans Antlov, Erdene Ochir Badarch, Demba Balde, Andrew Beath, Victor Bottini, Sean Bradley, Samuel Clark, John Van Dyck, Patricia Fernandez, Christopher Finch, Andrew Goodland, Susanne Holste, Yacouba Konate, Abdu Muwonge, Maria Loreto Padua, Jonas Ingemann Parby, Janelle Plummer, Janmejay Singh, Makiko Watanabe, and Fara Zahir. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - OVERVIEW TABLE OF THE COUNTRY CASE STUDIES - COUNTRY CASE STUDIES (in alphabetical order): Afghanistan - Country Brief | Laws, Policies, and Regulations | Background Documents Benin - Country Brief | Laws, Policies, and Regulations | Background Documents Cambodia - Country Brief | Laws, Policies, and Regulations | Background Documents Ghana - Country Brief | Laws, Policies, and Regulations | Background Documents India - Country Brief | Laws, Policies, and Regulations | Background Documents Indonesia - Country Brief | Laws, Policies, and Regulations | Background Documents Kenya - Country Brief | Laws, Policies, and Regulations | Background Documents Mongolia - Country Brief | Laws, Policies, and Regulations | Background Documents Philippines: Bottom-Up Budgeting Program - Country Brief | Laws, Policies, and Regulations | Background Documents Government Procurement Reform Act - Country Brief | Laws, Policies, and Regulations | Background Documents Local Government Code of 1991 - Country Brief | Laws, Policies, and Regulations | Background Documents Senegal - Country Brief | Laws, Policies, and Regulations | Background Documents Timor-Leste - Country Brief | Laws, Policies, and Regulations | Background Documents Related Community-Driven Development Social Development For feedback or inquiries Contact the World Bank's CDD Global Solutions Group: Email --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.