Event | TICAD9 Thematic Event “AI Transformation for Africa – AI talent development and Ecosystem strengthening” Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events TICAD9 Thematic Event “AI Transformation for Africa – AI talent development and Ecosystem strengthening” Share Organized by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) Co-organized by World Bank and UNDP Overview Artificial Intelligence (AI) technology is becoming one of the most versatile digital tools which is reshaping the world with how we gather and analyze data, enrich information, and use the resulting intelligence to help make informed decisions. AI is already transforming every walk of life regardless of where one lives in the world. This is true in Africa as well, where AI based solutions are addressing key challenges in areas such as healthcare, agriculture, education, and economic development. In many ways, it is being considered as one of the key digital drivers to help solve socio-economic challenges and accelerate sustainable development. However, in order to truly harness the power of AI, there are many challenges that the African countries need to overcome as well. Limited Infrastructure, Scarcity and Quality of AI ready dataset, Skill Gaps and scarcity of AI talents, Ethical and Cultural Considerations, Governance and Regulatory Issues, Safety and Trust are some of the key challenges that the continent faces and must tackle. The session aims to discuss the challenges and opportunities of AI in African development, and how to create AI talents in the continent to support the AI supported development in Africa. The session is subdivided into two panel discussions with both of these topics will be discussed as main themes. It is hoped that the results of the panel discussions will be fed into various different AI initiatives which will be implemented in Africa. Key Questions Key Discussion items of the Panel Discussion One (Draft) “Challenges and opportunities of AI in African development” What are the potential benefits of introducing AI into various different socio-economic and political development of the African continent? What are the key challenges which Africa need to tackle when it adapts AI for its development? How could Africa position itself vis-a-vis Global AI development? How could government, development partners, academia, and private sectors can create synergy in the area of AI to promote digital transformation and development in Africa? How could private sector support AI led development in Africa? Key Discussion items of the Panel Discussion Two (Draft) “AI Talent development in Africa” What are the profiles of AI talents which are needed in Africa to compete against other countries? What is the current condition of AI human capacity in Africa? What are needed to expand AI talents in Africa? How could development partners, academia, and private sector could collaborate to help build AI talents in Africa? How could African governments encourage AI talent development in Africa? Speaker from World Bank: Michel Rogy, Digital Development Practice Manager for Africa and Middle East, World Bank Event Details Date/Time 12:30pm-2:30pm, Thursday, August 21, 2025 (Japan Standard Time) Venue: InterContinental Grand Yokohama Hotel Access(opens in a new tab) Format Hybrid (In-person participation and online participation) For details and registration Please see JICA’s webpage: AI Transformation for Africa – AI talent development and Ecosystem strengthening Contact Koichi Omori, World Bank Tokyo Office komori@worldbankgroup.org Related The Ninth Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD 9) official site World Bank Africa Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×