Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) - U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) Skip to sub-navigation U.S. Energy Information Administration - EIA - Independent Statistics and Analysis Menu Sources & Uses Topics Geography Tools Education News Sources & Uses Topics Geography Tools Education News Petroleum & Other Liquids Crude oil, gasoline, heating oil, diesel, propane, and other liquids including biofuels and natural gas liquids. Gasoline and Diesel Fuel Update Weekly Petroleum Status Report Natural Gas Exploration and reserves, storage, imports and exports, production, prices, sales. Weekly Natural Gas Storage Report Natural Gas Weekly Update Electricity Sales, revenue and prices, power plants, fuel use, stocks, generation, trade, demand & emissions. Electric Power Monthly Electricity Data Browser Consumption & Efficiency Energy use in homes, commercial buildings, manufacturing, and transportation. Residential Energy Consumption Survey (RECS) Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Survey (CBECS) Coal Reserves, production, prices, employment and productivity, distribution, stocks, imports and exports. Quarterly Coal Report Coal Data Browser Renewable & Alternative Fuels Includes hydropower, solar, wind, geothermal, biomass and ethanol. Alternative Fuel Vehicle Browser Nuclear & Uranium Uranium fuel, nuclear reactors, generation, spent fuel. Daily Status of Nuclear Outages Total Energy Comprehensive data summaries, comparisons, analysis, and projections integrated across all energy sources. Monthly Energy Review Annual Energy Review A-Z Index A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | XYZ Analysis & Projections Monthly and yearly energy forecasts, analysis of energy topics, financial analysis, congressional reports. Short-Term Energy Outlook Annual Energy Outlook International Energy Outlook Markets & Finance Financial market analysis and financial data for major energy companies. Market Prices and Uncertainty Report Energy & Financial Markets: What Drives Crude Oil Prices? Environment Greenhouse gas data, voluntary reporting, electric power plant emissions. U.S. Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions at the State Level, 2005-2016 Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions at the State Level Energy Disruptions Maps, tools, and resources related to energy disruptions and infrastructure. Energy Disruptions A-Z Index A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | XYZ U.S. States State energy information, including overviews, rankings, data, and analyses. State Energy Data System (SEDS) Maps Maps by energy source and topic, includes forecast maps. U.S. Energy Atlas U.S. Energy Mapping System Energy Disruptions International International energy information, including overviews, rankings, data, and analyses. International Energy Statistics Regional Dashboards & Data Regional energy information including dashboards, maps, data, and analyses. New England Dashboard Southern California Daily Energy Report Energy Disruptions A-Z Index A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | XYZ Glossary Data Tools, Apps, & Maps Tools to customize searches, view specific data sets, study detailed documentation, and access time-series data. Open Data EIA's free and open data available as API, Excel add-in, bulk files, and widgets EIA Beta Come test out some of the products still in development and let us know what you think! Open Source Code EIA's open source code, available on GitHub. All Reports & Publications EIA Survey Forms Forms EIA uses to collect energy data including descriptions, links to survey instructions, and additional information. Email Updates Sign up for email subscriptions to receive messages about specific EIA products RSS Feeds Subscribe to feeds for updates on EIA products including Today in Energy and What's New. Follow us. . . A-Z Index A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | XYZ Today in Energy Short, timely articles with graphics on energy, facts, issues, and trends. Energy Explained What is Energy? Units & Calculators U.S. Energy Facts Use of Energy Energy & Environment Petroleum Hydrocarbon Gas Liquids Natural Gas Coal Nuclear Electricity Hydrogen Hydropower Biofuels Biomass Wind Geothermal Solar For Teachers Lesson plans, science fair experiments, field trips, teacher guide, and career corner. Glossary FAQs Coal Conversion & Equivalents Oil/Petroleum Diesel Electricity Environment Gasoline General Energy Natural Gas Nuclear Prices Renewables A-Z Index A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | XYZ What's New? Annual Coal Report Nov 19, 2025 State Energy Portal: Updated Analyses and Quick Facts Nov 19, 2025 Annual Coal Distribution Report Nov 19, 2025 See what's new Press Room Press Releases Congressional Testimony Presentations Events Coming Up Coming Up Underground Natural Gas Working Storage Capacity Annual Solar Photovoltaic Module Shipments Report --> Featured Reports Reports requested by congress or otherwise deemed important. Midwest and Rocky Mountain Transportation Fuels Markets East Coast and Gulf Coast Transportation Fuels Markets West Coast Transportation Fuels Markets Southern California Daily Energy Report Effects of the Clean Power Plan --> A-Z Index A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | XYZ Enter Search Term(s): Search Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) This page has no sub-navigation. Skip to page content . Coal Does EIA have county-level energy production data? Does EIA have forecasts or projections for energy production, consumption, and prices for individual states? Does EIA publish coking coal prices? How do I convert between short tons and metric tons? How large are U.S. coal reserves? How many power plants are in the United States? How much coal does the United States export and to where? How much coal does the United States import and from where? How much coal, natural gas, or petroleum is used to generate a kilowatthour of electricity? How much does it cost to generate electricity with different types of power plants? How much of U.S. carbon dioxide emissions are associated with electricity generation? What are the different coal prices published by EIA? What is U.S. electricity generation by energy source? What is the heat content of U.S. coal? What types and amounts of energy are produced in each state? Which states produce the most coal? Conversion & Equivalents How do I compare the cost of heating fuels? How do I convert between short tons and metric tons? How do I convert data in one unit of measure to a different unit of measure? How many gallons of gasoline and diesel fuel are made from one barrel of oil? What are Ccf, Mcf, Btu, and therms? How do I convert natural gas prices in dollars per Ccf or Mcf to dollars per Btu or therm? What are the greenhouse gas and air pollutant emissions factors for fuels and electricity? What is the efficiency of different types of power plants? Diesel Does EIA have forecasts or projections for energy production, consumption, and prices for individual states? Does EIA publish inflation-adjusted gasoline and diesel fuel prices? Does EIA publish off-road diesel fuel prices? How do I calculate diesel fuel surcharges? How do we calculate product supplied? How many gallons of gasoline and diesel fuel are made from one barrel of oil? How much biomass-based liquid fuels are produced, imported, exported, and consumed in the United States? How much carbon dioxide is produced from U.S. gasoline and diesel fuel consumption? How much tax do we pay on a gallon of gasoline and on a gallon of diesel fuel? What are the projections for U.S. gasoline and diesel fuel prices? What do I pay for in a gallon of gasoline and diesel fuel? When was the last refinery built in the United States? Why are diesel fuel prices higher than gasoline prices? Electricity Can electric utility customers choose their electricity supplier? Does EIA have county-level energy production data? Does EIA have data on costs for electricity transmission and distribution? Does EIA have data on each power plant in the United States? Does EIA have forecasts or projections for energy production, consumption, and prices for individual states? Does EIA have information on unplanned disruptions or outages of U.S. energy infrastructure? Does EIA publish data on peak or hourly electricity generation, demand, and prices? Does EIA publish electric utility rate, tariff, and demand charge data? Does EIA publish electricity sales and price data by state and by utility? Does EIA publish energy consumption and price data for cities, counties, or by zip code? Does EIA publish the location of electric power plants and transmission lines? How is electricity used in U.S. homes? How many electric vehicles (EV) and EV charging stations are in the United States? How many nuclear power plants are in the United States, and where are they located? How many power plants are in the United States? How many smart meters are installed in the United States, and who has them? How much carbon dioxide is produced per kilowatthour of U.S. electricity generation? How much coal, natural gas, or petroleum is used to generate a kilowatthour of electricity? How much does it cost to build different types of power plants in the United States? How much does it cost to generate electricity with different types of power plants? How much electricity does a power plant generate? How much electricity does an American home use? How much electricity is lost in electricity transmission and distribution in the United States? How much electricity is used for air conditioning in the United States? How much electricity is used for lighting in the United States? How much energy does the world consume by each energy end-use sector? How much of U.S. carbon dioxide emissions are associated with electricity generation? How much of U.S. energy production and consumption comes from renewable energy sources? How much of world energy production and consumption is from renewable energy? How old are U.S. nuclear power plants, and when was the newest one built? What is U.S. electricity generation by energy source? What is the difference between electricity generation capacity and electricity generation? What is the efficiency of different types of power plants? What is the outlook for home heating fuel prices this winter? What types and amounts of energy are produced in each state? Environment Does EIA have forecasts or projections for energy production, consumption, and prices for individual states? How do I convert between short tons and metric tons? How many electric vehicles (EV) and EV charging stations are in the United States? How much carbon dioxide is produced from U.S. gasoline and diesel fuel consumption? How much carbon dioxide is produced per kilowatthour of U.S. electricity generation? How much carbon dioxide is produced when different fuels are burned? How much of U.S. carbon dioxide emissions are associated with electricity generation? Is ozone a greenhouse gas? What are U.S. energy-related carbon dioxide emissions by source and sector? What are greenhouse gases and how do they affect the climate? What are the energy-related carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels for the United States and the world? What are the greenhouse gas and air pollutant emissions factors for fuels and electricity? Why do carbon dioxide emissions weigh more than the original fuel? Gasoline Does EIA have forecasts or projections for energy production, consumption, and prices for individual states? Does EIA have historical gasoline prices for each state? Does EIA publish energy consumption and price data for cities, counties, or by zip code? Does EIA publish gasoline prices by city, county, or zip code? Does EIA publish inflation-adjusted gasoline and diesel fuel prices? How do we calculate product supplied? How many gallons of gasoline and diesel fuel are made from one barrel of oil? How much carbon dioxide is produced from U.S. gasoline and diesel fuel consumption? How much ethanol is in gasoline, and how does it affect fuel economy? How much gasoline does the United States consume? How much tax do we pay on a gallon of gasoline and on a gallon of diesel fuel? What are the projections for U.S. gasoline and diesel fuel prices? What do I pay for in a gallon of gasoline and diesel fuel? What other motor gasoline consumption data sources are available? When was the last refinery built in the United States? General Energy Does EIA have county-level energy production data? Does EIA have forecasts or projections for energy production, consumption, and prices for individual states? Does EIA have information on U.S. natural gas and oil pipelines? Does EIA have information on unplanned disruptions or outages of U.S. energy infrastructure? Does EIA publish energy consumption and price data for cities, counties, or by zip code? Does EIA publish the location of electric power plants and transmission lines? How do I compare the cost of heating fuels? How many electric vehicles (EV) and EV charging stations are in the United States? How many smart meters are installed in the United States, and who has them? How much does it cost to build different types of power plants in the United States? How much electricity is used for air conditioning in the United States? How much energy does a person use in a year? How much energy does the world consume by each energy end-use sector? How much energy is consumed in U.S. buildings? How much natural gas is consumed in the United States? How much of U.S. energy production and consumption comes from renewable energy sources? How much of world energy production and consumption is from renewable energy? What is U.S. electricity generation by energy source? What is the United States’ share of world energy consumption? What types and amounts of energy are produced in each state? Where can I get help paying my utility bills? Natural Gas Does EIA have county-level energy production data? Does EIA have forecasts or projections for energy production, consumption, and prices for individual states? Does EIA have information on U.S. natural gas and oil pipelines? Does EIA have information on unplanned disruptions or outages of U.S. energy infrastructure? Does EIA publish energy consumption and price data for cities, counties, or by zip code? Does EIA publish shale gas and coalbed methane production and reserves data? How does EIA calculate the year-ago and five-year averages in the Weekly Natural Gas Storage Report? How much coal, natural gas, or petroleum is used to generate a kilowatthour of electricity? How much does it cost to generate electricity with different types of power plants? How much natural gas does the United States have, and how long will it last? How much natural gas is consumed in the United States? How much of U.S. carbon dioxide emissions are associated with electricity generation? How much shale gas is produced in the United States? What are Ccf, Mcf, Btu, and therms? How do I convert natural gas prices in dollars per Ccf or Mcf to dollars per Btu or therm? What are the major factors affecting natural gas prices? What can I expect to pay for heating this winter? What is U.S. electricity generation by energy source? What is the outlook for home heating fuel prices this winter? What is the price or cost of natural gas for U.S. electric power producers? What is the volume of world natural gas reserves? What types and amounts of energy are produced in each state? Which states consume and produce the most natural gas? Why am I being charged more for heating oil or propane than the price on EIA's website? Nuclear Does EIA have forecasts or projections for energy production, consumption, and prices for individual states? Does EIA have information on unplanned disruptions or outages of U.S. energy infrastructure? How many nuclear power plants are in the United States, and where are they located? How many power plants are in the United States? How much does it cost to generate electricity with different types of power plants? How much electricity does a power plant generate? How much of U.S. carbon dioxide emissions are associated with electricity generation? How old are U.S. nuclear power plants, and when was the newest one built? What is U.S. electricity generation by energy source? Oil/Petroleum Does EIA have county-level energy production data? Does EIA have data on U.S. oil refineries and their locations? Does EIA have data on the movement (transport) of crude oil, biofuels, petroleum products, and propane by rail? Does EIA have data on the type or quality of crude oil? Does EIA have forecasts or projections for energy production, consumption, and prices for individual states? Does EIA have information on U.S. natural gas and oil pipelines? Does EIA have information on unplanned disruptions or outages of U.S. energy infrastructure? Does the world have enough oil to meet our future needs? How do we calculate product supplied? How many gallons of gasoline and diesel fuel are made from one barrel of oil? How much coal, natural gas, or petroleum is used to generate a kilowatthour of electricity? How much of the crude oil produced in the United States is consumed in the United States? How much oil consumed by the United States comes from foreign countries? How much oil is consumed in the United States? How much oil is used to make plastic? How much petroleum does the United States import and export? How much shale (tight) oil is produced in the United States? What are petroleum products, and what is petroleum used for? What countries are the top producers and consumers of oil? What do I pay for in a gallon of gasoline and diesel fuel? What is U.S. electricity generation by energy source? What is the difference between crude oil, petroleum products, and petroleum? What is the difference in product supplied among EIA publications? What is the outlook for home heating fuel prices this winter? What other motor gasoline consumption data sources are available? What types and amounts of energy are produced in each state? When was the last refinery built in the United States? Prices Are prices published by EIA adjusted for inflation? Does EIA have ethanol price data? Does EIA have forecasts or projections for energy production, consumption, and prices for individual states? Does EIA have historical gasoline prices for each state? Does EIA publish coking coal prices? Does EIA publish data on peak or hourly electricity generation, demand, and prices? Does EIA publish electric utility rate, tariff, and demand charge data? Does EIA publish electricity sales and price data by state and by utility? Does EIA publish energy consumption and price data for cities, counties, or by zip code? Does EIA publish gasoline prices by city, county, or zip code? Does EIA publish inflation-adjusted gasoline and diesel fuel prices? Does EIA publish off-road diesel fuel prices? How do I calculate diesel fuel surcharges? How do I compare the cost of heating fuels? How much does it cost to generate electricity with different types of power plants? How much tax do we pay on a gallon of gasoline and on a gallon of diesel fuel? What are Ccf, Mcf, Btu, and therms? How do I convert natural gas prices in dollars per Ccf or Mcf to dollars per Btu or therm? What are the different coal prices published by EIA? What are the projections for U.S. gasoline and diesel fuel prices? What can I expect to pay for heating this winter? What do I pay for in a gallon of gasoline and diesel fuel? What is the outlook for home heating fuel prices this winter? What is the price or cost of natural gas for U.S. electric power producers? Where can I get help paying my utility bills? Why am I being charged more for heating oil or propane than the price on EIA's website? Why are diesel fuel prices higher than gasoline prices? Renewables Does EIA have data on the movement (transport) of crude oil, biofuels, petroleum products, and propane by rail? Does EIA have ethanol price data? Does EIA have forecasts or projections for energy production, consumption, and prices for individual states? Does EIA have information on unplanned disruptions or outages of U.S. energy infrastructure? How many electric vehicles (EV) and EV charging stations are in the United States? How much biomass-based liquid fuels are produced, imported, exported, and consumed in the United States? How much does it cost to generate electricity with different types of power plants? How much ethanol is in gasoline, and how does it affect fuel economy? How much fuel ethanol is produced, imported, exported, and consumed in the United States? How much of U.S. carbon dioxide emissions are associated with electricity generation? How much of U.S. energy production and consumption comes from renewable energy sources? How much of world energy production and consumption is from renewable energy? What is U.S. electricity generation by energy source? What types and amounts of energy are produced in each state? Top On This Page: Coal Conversion & Equivalents Diesel Electricity Environment Gasoline General Energy Natural Gas Nuclear Oil/Petroleum Prices Renewables Full list of upcoming reports Sign up for email notifications Get the What's New RSS feed Didn't find the answer to your question? Ask an energy expert About EIA Open Data Press Room Contact Us U.S. Energy Information Administration 1000 Independence Ave., SW Washington, DC 20585 Sources & Uses Petroleum Coal Natural Gas Renewable Nuclear Electricity Consumption Total Energy Topics Analysis & Projections Environment Markets & Finance Energy Disruptions Today in Energy Geography States Countries Maps Tools A-Z Index All Reports & Publications Data Tools, Apps, and Maps EIA Survey Forms EIA Beta Open Source Code Policies Privacy/Security Copyright & Reuse Accessibility Information Quality Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Learn about the Department of Energy’s Vulnerability Disclosure Program Related Sites U.S. Department of Energy USA.gov Stay Connected Facebook X Youtube Flickr LinkedIn Email Updates RSS Feeds