Event | Workshop on the Role of National Development Banks and Competition Policies in the Financial Sector Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events FinSAC Workshop on the Role of National Development Banks and Competition Policies in the Financial Sector Share Overview Agenda Presentations Related At a May 26 workshop hosted by the Vienna Development Knowledge Center, policymakers and financial regulators from Europe and Central Asia – as well as World Bank experts – came together to share insights and best practices related to National Development Banks (NDBs). The workshop has focused on the pivotal role that NDBs can play in supporting inclusive economic development, fostering innovation, and financing critical investment projects that underpin sustainable development. The first morning session has discussed the importance of enhancing the effectiveness, financial and technical capabilities, and governance arrangements of NDBs to maximize their development impact. The second session has focused on designing and building up a sound and fit-for- purpose prudential regulatory and supervisory framework to ensure a level playing field that fully considers the NDB’s specific nature, business model and legal mandate. Workshop Agenda, May 26, 2025 Session 1.1: Good Practices on Development Banking Eva Gutierrez Lead Financial Economist, World Bank Group Session 1.2: Workshop on the Role of National Development Banks and Competition Policies in the Financial Sector Otto Weyhausen-Brinkmann Head of International Strategy and Strategic Equity Holdings, KfW Germany Session 2.1: Development banks: prudential regulation and supervision Ismael Ahmad Fontan Senior Financial Sector Specialist, FinSAC, World Bank Group Session 2.2: The legislative and regulatory framework for development banks in Romania Mirela Dima Head, Regulatory and Authorization Directorate, National Bank of Romania Session 2.3: Transformation and redesign of the business model and regulatory approach Libor Löfler Credit Institution Supervision, Financial Markets Supervision, Czech National Bank Session 2.4: Role of National Development Banks Tai Khain Ken Manager, Financial Inclusion Department, Central Bank of Malaysia Financial Sector Advisory Center (FinSAC) Financial Sector FAQs Do I need to register to attend the event? Yes. Please use the Sign Up button to register. This confirms your attendance for either the in-person event or access to the livestream. Once registered, you’ll receive an email with event access details, location or login instructions, and timely reminders. What happens if I miss the event? The event recording will be available on this page shortly after it concludes. If you registered via the Sign Up button, you’ll receive a follow-up email with a link to watch the replay and access any resources shared during the event. Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×