Jobs for Shared Prosperity: Time for Action in the Middle East and North Africa --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work Home publication publication Jobs for Shared Prosperity: Time for Action in the Middle East and North Africa Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> This report focuses on jobs as the key to understanding the many layers of exclusion that have produced the world’s highest youth unemployment rate and left three out of every four working-age women outside the labor force. Each chapter unpacks one of the multiple factors that affect labor markets in the region, ranging from the educational system to government policy and the current governance of the private sector. The main message is that the cur-rent regulatory environment, by protecting certain markets and a few privileged insiders, stands in the way of a dynamic private sector and the more and better jobs it could provide. The rules need to change to ease the entry of new firms supported by better access to credit. This adjustment would increase competition and serve as a vital catalyst for the innovation and investment that ultimately lead to more demand for labor. The current incentives that affect decisions about where to work and when to hire also need to be addressed. This effort would include phasing out the fuel subsidies that encourage investment in machines over the hiring of workers and diminishing the pull of the public sector to allow labor to ﬂow to where it would be most productive. Easing employment regulations, coupled with a strong and well-targeted social safety net to protect the unemployed, would facilitate both hiring and mobility. An educational system more in tune with the needs of the private sector would also be another vital source of growth and jobs , equipping students with the skills and knowledge required by innovative businesses. Algeria Home Djibouti Egypt Gulf Cooperation Council Iran Iraq Jordan Lebanon Morocco Syria Tunisia West Bank and Gaza Yemen View More + RELATED Full Report: English Overview English | Français | عربي Executive summaries English | Français | عربي Main messages English | Français | عربي Feature Release Blog: Let’s have a conversation about what exactly I should tell your Finance Minister Blog: Why jobless? Privilege not competition in the Private Sector Blog: What are ALMPs? Can they help me find a job? Q&A: What’s Standing in the Way of Good Jobs in the Arab World? Show More + --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.