Akinchan "Aki" Jain Home Who We Are Experts Akinchan "Aki" Jain Akinchan "Aki" Jain Head, Asset and Liability Operations, Treasury, TRE RELATED Aki Jain on LinkedIn AREAS OF EXPERTISE Financial Sector Akinchan (Aki) Jain is Head of Asset and Liability Operations (TREAL) at the World Bank Treasury. In this role, Aki leads a global team of ~50 staff responsible for supporting approx. $300bn in outstanding debt issuance, $650bn in derivatives, and $200 billion in AUM for the World Bank and 60+ clients including central banks and official institutions. He leads large business and technology projects and manages relationships with clients, market counter parts, custodians, brokers, and technology vendors. This includes a joint World Bank-IFC initiative to modernize and consolidate ALM systems. Passionate about harnessing the power of capital markets and technology for development, Aki has recently co-led projects where the World Bank issued innovative digital bonds using blockchain technology and central bank digital currency (CBDC). In recognition of their efforts to advance capital markets and asset management, the TREAL team received several industry awards including for “Innovation in Reserves Management” (2021) and “Asset Servicing Initiative of the year” (2023). The team has twice been shortlisted for “Operations Team of the Year” award (2023 and 2024). Previously, as Senior Financial Officer in the Structured Finance and Derivatives team at the World Bank Treasury, Aki played a key role in managing the $60 billion funding and derivatives program for the World Bank’s IBRD and IDA entities. Aki designed, structured, and executed customized and innovative capital markets solutions to support the needs of World Bank's investors and clients. Aki has worked on several landmark transactions and initiatives, including the World Bank’s first catastrophe bond, the first global pandemic bond, the first bond linked to the achievement of the Sustainable development Goals, a social impact bond to incentivize the reduction of carbon emissions, and a guarantees and blended finance facility to help countries affected by the refugee crisis. Aki holds a bachelor’s degree in economics from SRCC in Delhi University and an MBA in Finance from American University. RECENT PUBLIC SPEAKING ENGAGEMENTS World Bank Bonds | AU Law School | Washington, DC | January 2024 Global Perspectives on the Digitalization Agenda | ICMA Fintech Conference | December 2023 Collateral Management Evolution | SIFMA & ISDA | New York | October 2023 Sustainable Investments | Economist Euro Finance International | Barcelona | September 2023 World Bank Bonds for Central Bank Investors | Euroclear Central Bank Conference | Brussels | May 2023 Digitizing Capital Markets | The Economist Euro Finance International Conference | Vienna, Austria | September 2022 Sustainable Finance and ESG | Johns Hopkins University | Washington, DC | October 2022 Fixed Income Markets in China | Bank of New York Mellon’s asset management clients | Global Webinar | November 2022 MORE FROM Akinchan "Aki" Jain Publications Projects Blog posts