Social Risk Management and DRM --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News "Japan-World Bank Program for Mainstreaming Disaster Risk Management in Developing Countries" Knowledge Program Social Risk Management and DRM May 15, 2015 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Natural disasters can push people into chronic poverty and force them to adopt negative coping strategies. Social protection programs play an important role in protecting the poor and the vulnerable from these impacts and help them reduce their exposure to disaster risks. This complements the aims of broader social protection systems, which help safeguard livelihoods from economic shocks and structural poverty. Japan has a history of innovatively adapting social protection mechanisms to disaster risk management (DRM) needs, and the 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake and Tsunami once again showed the country’s ability to use an array of instruments to support victims. Authorities harnessed pre-existing pension programs to offer retirees low-interest loans and provided unemployment insurance benefits to workers whose offices, factories, and stores were damaged and unable to reopen quickly. The government sought effective recovery, by re-establishing land titling for regions where records were destroyed and ensuring children could attend school immediately after the disaster, among many other steps. The World Bank Disaster Risk Management Hub ’s Social Risk Management engagement builds and strengthens the synergy between social protection systems and DRM demands in vulnerable countries to reduce social risks caused by disasters. The project is developing operational toolkits and training support to help social protection and DRM practitioners better integrate these aspects into development projects. World Bank Disaster Risk Management Hub, Tokyo RELATED SITES Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery (GFDRR) World Bank Tokyo Office Japan Disaster Risk Management Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.