Afghanistan Transition Economics Update --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work افغانستان (en) publication Afghanistan Transition Economics Update دا پاڼه په: English فارسی پښتو بریښنا لیک چاپ Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> World Bank December 01, 2014: The World Bank’s Transition Economics Update, in advance of the London Conference on Afghanistan , touches upon four areas: (i) Afghanistan’s development progress and challenges; (ii) key messages from Tokyo and our 2012 Transition Economics Report; (iii) recent economic and fiscal developments; and (iv) the priority agenda going forward. Afghanistan has achieved significant economic and social progress over the last decade from a very low base. At the same time, it faces formidable development challenges. At Tokyo in 2012, the World Bank recognized that the transformation of the Afghan economy will take a decade or more. While aid will decline as a share of GDP, a persistent financing gap will remain through 2025 given considerable needs for security, operations and maintenance (O&M), and improving low levels of development. In this context, the priority agenda will require (i) restoring fiscal stability; (ii) restoring confidence and creating private sector jobs; (iii) strengthening social cohesion and service delivery; and (iv) fighting corruption and strengthening governance. Presentation in English (pdf) Presentation in Dari (pdf) Presentation in Pashto (pdf) افغانستان (en) منځنی ختیځ او شمالي افریقا (en) اړوند Report: Afghanistan in Transition: Looking Beyond 2014 Meeting: London Conference on Afghanistan Presentation: Afghanistan Transition to Transformation Update اړیکه In Kabul بریښنا لیک --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.