New World Bank Program to Protect Indian Coastline, Provide More Jobs for 100,000 People in States of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka Who We Are News This page in: English हिन्दी This page in: English हिन्दी PRESS RELEASE September 10, 2025 New World Bank Program to Protect Indian Coastline, Provide More Jobs for 100,000 People in States of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Adobe Stock WASHINGTON, September 9, 2025 — The World Bank’s Board of Executive Directors today approved a new program to support coastal communities in India by protecting and conserving ecosystems, reducing plastic pollution, and providing more and diverse jobs for 100,000 people in the states of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. India has a long-running coastline of more than 11,000 kilometers with one-third of the coastline vulnerable to erosion and extreme climate events. Around 250 million people depend on coastal areas for their homes and livelihoods in sectors like fisheries, transport, and tourism. The coastline also provides habitats for 18,000 known species of flora and fauna offering vital economic opportunities and sources of livelihood for coastal communities. However, marine ecosystems are at risk by the combined effect of coastal erosion, pollution, intensive fishing, degradation of mangrove forests and urban pressures. The $212.64 million Strengthening Coastal Resilience and the Economy (SHORE) Project is part of the umbrella $850 million SHORE Program which will address challenges faced by coastal communities in India. The Project will support Tamil Nadu and Karnataka implement their coastal zone management plans by helping 100,000 people through enhanced knowledge, skill development and by leveraging funds for government agencies and local communities. It will also help 70,000 people, including women, receive training in sectors like sustainable tourism to gain new sources of income. “India’s Vision 2030 has recognized the potential of the blue economy to power its economic growth,” said Paul Procee, the World Bank’s Acting Country Director for India. “This Project will help states tap into private sector sources to mitigate the impacts of plastic pollution and to foster eco-tourism in selected areas. For example, private sector intervention can help to strengthen plastic waste value chains and establish environment-friendly beaches while also creating economic opportunities for coastal communities.” The Project will help to conserve 30,000 hectares of seascapes in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka through planting of mangroves, restoration of sand dunes in combination with green and grey infrastructure such as breakwaters where necessary. It will help in coral protection and species such as dugongs, turtles, and birds. “In 2019, Tamil Nadu was the first state in India to ban single-use plastics. This Project will enhance measures in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka through public awareness campaigns on recycling and plastics leakage, as well as bridging the gap between urban local bodies and the private sector for solid waste management in cities. Reducing plastic pollution will benefit 120,000 people,” said Dinesh Aryal, Chabungbam Singh, and Avanish Kant, the Task Team Leaders for the Program. The $212.64 million is part of the first phase of the SHORE Program loan from the International Bank of Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and has a final maturity of 23 years, including a grace period of 6.5 years. Contacts Washington Diana Chung +1 202 473 8357 dchung1@worldbank.org New Delhi Shilpa Banerji +91-11-41479220 sbanerji1@worldbank.org RELATED Project Documents Connect with us! World Bank India Website (English) World Bank India Website (Hindi) World Bank India Newsletters World Bank India Blogs Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×