LCR Inclusive Internship Program Where We Work Latin America and Caribbean This page in: English Español Français Português This page in: English Español Français Português Latin America and the Caribbean Region Inclusive Internship Program Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina Are you a graduate student in the Latin American/Caribbean region, aiming for a career in international development? Join the World Bank this fall for an Inclusive Internship Program! The Latin America and Caribbean Region (LCR) Inclusive Internship Program is designed to introduce a diverse and inclusive group of qualified graduate students to the World Bank by offering hands-on opportunities to contribute to development work in the Latin American and Caribbean region. Selected candidates will be able to improve their own skills in a diverse environment dedicated to ending poverty on a livable planet, and will benefit from (i) opportunities for onboarding and training; (ii) networking, mentoring, and coaching from World Bank staff and (iii) being a part of one of the most reputable development banks in the world. The LCR Inclusive Internship program is targeted to highly motivated and qualified individuals from the LAC region, with a special focus on Afro descendants, Indigenous People, persons with disabilities, LGBTI, and other minorities. The length of the internships will vary between six and ten months. Specific Terms of Reference for the assignments cover the fields of economics, finance, communications, agriculture, climate change, private sector development, environment, social development and inclusion, and other related fields. Selected candidates will be offered short-term temporary contracts with the WB for the period specified by each hiring unit. Interns will be hosted by the Country Offices and Practice Groups that have posted the task-based Terms of Reference. The call for internships was launched June 18th. The call for aplications close on July 22th, and selection will be finalized by August 2024. We are looking for: Operations Support - Colombia Diversity and Inclusion Strategy Officer - Bolivia Mexico Country Engagement - México Support to National Economic Policy Knowledge Agenda in Brazil - Brazil Support to Development Policy Operations – Brazil Support to the Finance, Competitiveness and Innovation Global Practice – Brazil Supporting the sustainable transition of Brazil agrifood system – Brazil Support to Country Office Operations Team – Brazil Support to Governance Practice Public Sector Institutions Unit – Brazil Support to the Social Inclusion and Conservation Agenda in Countries of the Amazon Basin - Washington DC, Brasilia, Lima or Bogota General requirements: Candidates must be a graduate-level student at an accredited university or a recent graduate of a graduate-level program (Master’s or PhD; up to 2 years after graduation) and 30 years old or younger. Should have a strong interest in and commitment to international development At least 1-2 years of relevant work experience (may include previous job positions, paid or unpaid internships and volunteer work) Enthusiasm for working in multicultural teams and across borders. Fluent verbal and written communication skills in English; working knowledge in Spanish, Portuguese or French may be required as per the Terms of Reference. Some positions may have nationality requirements for specific Latin American and Caribbean countries. Application and Selection Process Thank you for your interest in our Inclusive Internship Program! The World Bank will accept applications here from June 17th until July 22th, 2024 . Applications will be reviewed by the Human Resources team and recommended for longlisting. Individual hiring departments will review candidates to short-list based on their business needs. Only short-listed candidates will be contacted for interviews. Hiring decisions by the hiring department(s) expect to be concluded in August 2024. Please refer to the FAQs for any additional questions on the program and application process. Related WORLD BANK Apply now! Closing date: 22th July, 2024 Terms of Reference Frequently Asked Questions Discover more of our job in Latin America and the Caribbean This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×