Mobile Technology Leads Innovation in Southern Africa --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Mobile Technology Leads Innovation in Southern Africa March 19, 2013 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Ideal Technologies Team Evangelist Loago Raditedu, Nelly Motorito and Leene Mogobe working on their project as part of the Mobile Innovation Roadshow. STORY HIGHLIGHTS The Mobile Innovation Roadshow (MIR) provided an opportunity for Botswana’s mobile leaders and future business owners to participate in workshops and trainings focused on mobile innovation Mobile innovation is seen as a way to inspire economic growth in the country The MIR also traveled to Zambia, Namibia and Mozambique Gaborone, March 19, 2013 – Technology business leaders, mobile experts, future entrepreneurs and more recently gathered at the Botswana Innovation Hub for a week of workshops, trainings, moderated discussions and networking opportunities designed to encourage mobile technology innovation and spur economic growth in the country. The events were part of the Mobile Innovation Roadshow (MIR), a joint project between info Dev and the Southern African Innovation Support Programme (SAIS), both funded by the Government of Finland. Botswana was just one of four Southern African countries on the tour; events were also held in Namibia, Mozambique and Zambia. “Like most developed economies, it is our aspiration to reach a stage where Botswana shall be innovation driven,” said Dikagiso Mokotedi, the permanent secretary, Ministry of Infrastructure, Science and Technology, in his opening speech. “This Mobile innovation Roadshow initiative is one among many national efforts by which government and its associated partners are trying to create the right environment for skills and entrepreneurship to grow the economy of Botswana.” Mokotedi assured the government’s commitment by announcing plans for an eight-figure Innovation Fund to support start-up businesses and the information and communications technology sector. During the roadshow, participants had a chance to map out the benefits and opportunities of mobile technology, including the key challenges and issues of knowledge-based entrepreneurship and innovation promotion for Botswana. “Seventy-five percent of the world's population has access to mobile phones and innovators need to come up with ideas that can strengthen agribusiness and tourism sectors through mobile gadgets,” said Sophia Muradyan, info Dev program officer. “The World Bank supports and recognizes the liberal mobile market and its development through innovation of new ideas that match our environments and can help our communities to develop and move forward.” The Mobile Innovation Hackathon Day was aimed at engaging developers to build promising ideas into mobile application prototypes, and to raise awareness of the opportunities for mobile entrepreneurs. The theme was centered on agriculture. Ideal Technologies, a citizen-owned company which is a member of the Microsoft BizSpark start-up project emerged as the leaders. The company won P15, 000.00 worth of business intervention from an SAIS consultant, full sponsorship for the upcoming Global Business Forum in South Africa by InfoDev, a Knowledge Hamper including laptop and books from the Botswana Innovation Hub, radio coverage by Yarona FM and RBI, and possible incubation with First Steps Venture Centre. "Innovation is about mind-set, thinking differently in new ways," said Juha Miettinenhe, the SAIS chief technical officer, said the SAIS programme promotes collaboration between the innovation systems of African countries, to provide greater impact on economic and social development. RELATED WORLD BANK Website: The World Bank in Botswana Website: The World Bank in Africa Blog: Africa Can End Poverty Blog: Nasikiliza Social: Facebook Social: Twitter EXTERNAL Website: Botswana Innovation Hub Website: infoDev Website: Southern Africa Innovation Support Programme (SAIS) Botswana Home Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.