Climate - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Climate 1 2 … 8 Next Explore the Climate Resilience Toolkit Topic areas: Coastal Flooding Risk Ecosystem Vulnerability Energy Infrastructure Food Resilience Human Health Transportation Tribal Nations Water Resources Energy Infrastructure Data January 5, 2024 Here you will find scientific and technical information resources related to the potential impacts of climate change on the U.S. energy sector and other types of critical infrastructure. In an effort to enhance future energy security and the underlying knowledge foundations... Continued Water Data November 21, 2023 Here you will find resources related to the effects of climate change on water resources, as well as other water-related environmental and societal themes. Citizens, businesses, non-governmental agencies and governments can use these resources to... Continued Water Framing Questions November 21, 2023 Water How are human and natural components of the hydrologic cycle changing? How can communities and water managers plan for uncertain future conditions?... Continued Transportation Data November 14, 2023 The U.S. transportation system includes the roads, railways, bridges, waterways, pipelines, and ports that facilitate the production and distribution of goods and services throughout the country. The projected increase in extreme events such as... Continued Arctic Tools September 28, 2023 This page contains links to web-based tools and publicly accessible models to help understand, analyze, and assess the vulnerabilities and resilience of Arctic systems to climate variability, global climate change, and compounding stressors. Tools include interactive mapping applications as well as navigable libraries containing scientific and technical publications, additional datasets, or models. Continued Coastal Flooding Tools September 27, 2023 Here are a few government and non-government software tools to help coastal communities and others analyze and assess vulnerabilities to sea level rise, storm surges, and sinking lands. Continued Coastal Flooding Featured Content September 27, 2023 Coastal communities are becoming increasingly vulnerable to the risk of damage from coastal inundation. In the northeast, Hurricane Sandy was a stark reminder of the potential damage a single storm can cause. These additional resources listed below will allow you to create tools and provide information to help communities prepare... Continued Arctic Maps August 22, 2023 Below are several examples of available map resources that illustrate biophysical and socioeconomic aspects of the Arctic region. Continued Arctic Featured Content August 18, 2023 This page contains relevant content from U.S. government agencies and other sources that can help users understand how climate variability and/or global climate change is impacting and/or may impact different Arctic systems. Continued Transportation Maps May 2, 2019 Both climate impacts and transportation systems are distributed spatially. To map climate impacts to transportation infrastructure, we need to match the locations of the infrastructure to the impacts, and, this in turn requires maps or geocoded data sets… Continued 1 2 … 8 Next About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov