World Bank: Investments in Infrastructure and Tourism Will Boost Employment and Economic Development in Neuquén Who We Are News This page in: English Español This page in: English Español PRESS RELEASE November 20, 2025 World Bank: Investments in Infrastructure and Tourism Will Boost Employment and Economic Development in Neuquén Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina WASHINGTON D.C., November 20, 2025 – The World Bank approved a US$150 million project for the province of Neuquén aimed at improving infrastructure, promoting sustainable tourism, and strengthening regional economies. “Infrastructure investment and institutional capacity building related to tourism are engines of provincial development and part of a virtuous circle that improves quality of life and generates progress through socially sustainable and territorially balanced growth,” said Rolando Figueroa, Governor of Neuquén , who added: “Tourism is the second driving force of Neuquén’s development, after energy, and we have found in the World Bank a reliable partner to enhance and grow it, working as a team.” The project, “Resilient Infrastructure for Regional Economic Development and Job Creation,” is expected to benefit one million people living in or visiting the province, particularly nearly 300,000 residents of the regions of Pehuén, Southern Lakes, and Upper Neuquén. “Patagonia is a unique tourist destination. To strengthen it, we support infrastructure investments that expand the range of tourist attractions in a sustainable way. Investing in tourism promotes local job creation, increases opportunities for residents, and drives provincial economic growth,” said Marianne Fay, World Bank Country Director for Argentina, Paraguay, and Uruguay. The project focuses on four areas: Enhancing connectivity through paving key routes to enable better binational integration with Chile. Investing in priority tourist destinations, improving infrastructure and basic services. Strengthening institutional capacities for tourism development, including support for local entrepreneurs, women, and youth. Implementing disaster risk management measures, with a focus on prevention and response to wildfires. The project aims to foster women’s inclusion in quality jobs through technical and professional training and by strengthening women-led enterprises. Additionally, it incorporates measures to support integrated fire management. Specifically, it will improve data systems, implement prevention and risk reduction actions, deploy early warning systems, and add specialized equipment such as aircraft for firefighting. The loan to the province of Neuquén has a variable spread, is repayable over 32 years, includes a 7-year grace period, and carries a sovereign guarantee from the national government. Contacts Buenos Aires Yanina Budkin +54 (911) 3666-7567 ybudkin@worldbank.org Washington Yuri Szabo Yamashita +1 (202) 948-5341 yszaboyamashita@worldbank.org RELATED Learn more about the work of the World Bank in Argentina: www.bancomundial.org.ar Facebook Twitter YouTube channel Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×