Our Team --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Where We Work Latin America and Caribbean BRIEF Our Team October 24, 2016 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> The Office of the Chief Economist provides guidance on strategic priorities and technical quality of economic analysis in the Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC) Region. Core Team: William Maloney, Chief Economist, Latin America and the Caribbean. Full bio. Elena Ianchovichina, Deputy Chief Economist. Full bio . Guillermo Vuletin, Senior Economist. Full bio . Guillermo Beylis, Research Economist. Full bio . Daniel Riera-Crichton, Research Economist. Full bio. Pablo Garriga, Research Economist. Full Bio. Nathalie Gonzalez-Prieto. Full bio. Administrative Assistant: Jackie Larrabure , Program Assistant Research Analysts: Jose Andree Camarena Virgilio Galdo Rucheta Singh Laura Tenjo Pilar Ruiz Daniel Lederman, Deputy Chief Economist. Full bio . Daniel Lederman, Deputy Chief Economist. Full bio . Jackie Larrabure , Program Assistant Last Updated: Feb 16, 2023 RELATED Home: Office of the Chief Economist, Latin America and the Caribbean Latin America and Caribbean --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.