World Bank Accountability Mechanism Skip to main content Search Search button About Mandate & Governance Inspection Panel Dispute Resolution Service Key Documents People How It Works Admissibility & Eligibility Dispute Resolution Investigation & Verification Outreach File a Complaint File a Complaint Case Center News and Events News and Events Newsletter IAMnet Contacts The World Bank Accountability Mechanism The World Bank Accountability Mechanism is an independent complaints mechanism for people and communities who believe that they have been, or are likely to be, harmed by a World Bank-funded project. It operates with two parallel entities: the Inspection Panel and the Dispute Resolution Service. File a complaint Annual Report What We Do We promote accountability at the World Bank by ensuring that project-affected people have access to an independent body to which they can express their concerns and seek recourse. The Inspection Panel carries out independent compliance reviews. It also provides advisory services through reports on lessons learned from cases. The Dispute Resolution Service facilitates a voluntary and independent dispute resolution option for communities and borrowers. Mandate & Governance News & Events View All Case update Nov 18,2025 Accountability Mechanism Dispute Resolution Service Extends Mediation Process in Pakistan Case card title News Nov 05,2025 Call for Expressions of Interest for Dispute Resolution and Mediation Professionals from the Western Balkans card title Case update Oct 30,2025 Dispute Resolution Service Follow-up Report: The Second Kampala Institutional and Infrastructure Development Project (KIIDP-2) in Uganda card title People View All Orsolya Székely Head of Dispute Resolution Service Orsolya Székely Ibrahim James Pam Chairperson of the Inspection Panel Ibrahim James Pam Evelyn Dietsche Panel Member Evelyn Dietsche Ajay Deshpande Panel Member Ajay Deshpande Subscribe to our newsletter First Name I agree with the terms of the Privacy Notice and consent to my personal data being processed, to the extent necessary, to subscribe to the selected updates. Error! Please enter a valid email address. Error! Please enter a valid email address. We've just sent you an e-mail, please check your inbox and confirm your e-mail address. You have already subscribed for this newsletter. We've just sent you an e-mail, please check your inbox and confirm your e-mail address. You have already subscribed for this newsletter. You have already subscribed for this e-alert. " /> Tracking a case Case Center ABOUT US The World Bank Accountability Mechanism is an independent complaints mechanism for people and communities who believe that they have been, or are likely to be, harmed by a World Bank-funded project. It houses the Inspection Panel and the Dispute Resolution Service. Case Center Subscribe to our Newsletter Subscribe --> About Mandate & Governance Inspection Panel Dispute Resolution Service Key Documents People How It Works Admissibility & Eligibility Dispute Resolution Investigation & Verification Outreach File a Complaint File a Complaint Case Center News and Events News and Events Newsletter IAMnet Contacts T: 1 202 458 5200 F: 1 202 522 0916 E: accountability@worldbank.org Facebook Twitter LinkedIn © 2024 by WBG ITSES | Photo Credit: Dominic Chavez This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×