Event | TICAD9 Thematic Event “WPS＋ Innovation: Shaping a New Era of Peace and Security: The Power of Women and Girls” Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events TICAD9 Thematic Event “WPS＋ Innovation: Shaping a New Era of Peace and Security: The Power of Women and Girls” Share Download brochure (PDF) Organized by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) Co-organized by UN Women and World Bank Overview Background The year 2025 is the 25th anniversary of the adoption of UN Security Council Resolution 1325. In view of the increase in conflicts and the intensification of disasters in recent years, the importance of the WPS Agenda needs to be reaffirmed on the occasion of the 25th anniversary. Women in African countries face ongoing challenges from GBV and human rights abuses, including FGM and child marriage. In addition, although the situation varies, conflict is a common issue across the continent. The promotion of the WPS agenda should be a continuous effort, implemented not only during times of conflict or disaster but also in peacetime. In addition, it is an issue that society as a whole should address, so it is important to strengthen cooperation with various stakeholders (private companies, civil society, youth, etc.). By engaging a diverse range of stakeholders, we can generate innovative actions to strengthen the overall impact of the WPS Agenda. Key Questions What approaches/initiatives are effective in promoting the WPS agenda? How can it be promoted, especially with innovation in mind? What kind of efforts should the international community, including governments, civil society and international organizations, take in the future to promote the WPS agenda? What is the significance of working to eliminate gender-based violence for the private sector? Objective This event will present examples of women and girls playing an active role in peace and security in Africa discuss the importance of building societies in which women and girls can live in peace by using innovative and dynamic perspectives/ approaches. highlight the value of innovation in promoting the WPS agenda, encouraging the participation of private companies, social entrepreneurs, students, and civil society. "Innovation" is not limited to technological innovation but to create new value through ever more dynamic stakeholders’ collaboration in this context. Speaker from the World Bank Trina Haque Regional Director for Human Development, Western and Central Africa, World Bank Event Details Date/Time 3:20pm-4:50pm, Thursday, August 21, 2025 (Japan Standard Time) Venue Pacifico Yokohama, Exhibition Hall D Access Format Hybrid (In-person participation and online participation) For details and registration Please see JICA’s webpage: WPS＋ Innovation: Shaping a New Era of Peace and Security: The Power of Women and Girls Contact Koichi Omori, World Bank Tokyo Office komori@worldbankgroup.org Related The Ninth Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD 9) official site World Bank Africa Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×