Event | Harnessing Ecosystem Restoration in the Context and Country Development Priorities Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Harnessing Ecosystem Restoration in the Context and Country Development Priorities Share Overview Agenda Context A strong and interdependent link exists between ecosystem restoration and prosperity. Humanity is embedded in nature and depends profoundly on the goods and services it generates—from food and water to raw materials and climate stability. Ecosystem degradation erodes essentials for well-being and potential economic development, affecting vulnerable communities the hardest. Restoration helps reverse this trend by recovering ecosystem functionality and natural assets, while supporting livelihoods, enhancing resilience, and unlocking job opportunities. As climate change accelerates, scaling up ecosystem restoration is vital and requires regulatory support, bridging financing gaps, promoting investable business models, and fostering innovation and collaboration globally. This event is the first of a series of international events to be held by the China-WBG Global Center for Ecological Systems and Transitions (Global Knowledge Center, or GKC for short). Launched in December 2024, the GKC represents a platform for knowledge exchange among countries facing similar development challenges, focusing on ecosystem restoration. This first international event will feature a one-day international conference and a 4-day study tour across North-West and South-East China. It will facilitate strategic dialogue and knowledge exchange between decision-makers, and provide capacity-building opportunities, fostering collaboration among global stakeholders. Objectives Aligned with the 3 technical areas of the GKC, the event centers on the overarching theme: “ Harnessing Ecosystem Restoration in the Context of Country Development Priorities ” and has 3 primary objectives: (i) To facilitate knowledge exchange on large scale ecosystem restoration techniques, especially in dryland areas, in the context of climate change. (ii) To identify and discuss successful approaches and policy innovations for capturing the value of ecosystem restoration through the development of nature-based economies. (iii) To share examples of efficient use of public funds and private financing solutions to support ecosystem restoration. Location The one-day international conference will take place in Beijing. The four-day study tour will take place in the provinces located in the upper to mid reaches of the Yellow River and Eastern region of China. The study tour has two main focuses: Desertification control and restoration of dryland ecosystems: China has made transformative efforts in in the upper and middle reaches of the Yellow River over the past few decades. Key initiatives such as the Three-North Shelterbelt Project and the Shanshui Initiative have transformed degraded landscapes through large-scale afforestation and ecological rehabilitation. Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region serves as a critical geographic and ecological case study, highlighting the impact of these efforts in conserving natural resources, enhancing climate resilience and supporting local development. Ningxia is a demonstrative model for countries facing land degradation and water security challenges. Innovations in finance, policy and private sector participation: located in the downstream of the Yangtze River Delta, Zhejiang Province is one of China’s most dynamic and economically vibrant regions. Known for its strong private sector and entrepreneurial spirit, Zhejiang has generated leading innovations in integrating ecosystem restoration with economic development. This province is also widely recognized as the birthplace of the “green is gold” concept, which emphasizes the coherence of environmental sustainability and economic prosperity. This concept has guided Zhejiang’s innovation in financing, policy support and private sector participation in ecosystem restoration. Zhejiang offers insights and lessons for other developing countries seeking sustainable growth pathways. Time and modality Participants are invited to a one-day international conference commencing on June 17 in Beijing, followed by a four-day (June 18-21) study tour to China’s North-West and the South-East to learn about ecosystem restoration under different development context and ecosystem types. The study tour is supported by the Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Center of the Ministry of Natural Resources. Participants The international conference on day 1 will feature keynote speakers from China and abroad and will see the participation of policymakers from countries in Sub-Saharan Africa, Central Asia, South Asia and Latin America, among others. China based participants will include government officials and representatives from international and domestic organizations, from development partners, academia, civil society and the private sector. The study tour, on the following days, is designed specifically for the international participants attending the conference, accompanied by a selected number of Chinese government and non-government experts (from both national and local entities). The first-day international event is expected to host approximately 100-150 participants, including 25-30 international guests from WBG client countries, international and Chinese experts, Chinese government officials, multilateral and development partners. International guests from WBG client countries will also attend the study tour. Conference Agenda June 17, 2025 Beijing Time Program 8:30-9:00 Registration for the conference 9:00-9:30 Official opening Opened by the Master of Ceremony, Mara Warwick , Division Director, China, World Bank Group (WBG) Official speeches (4 min each) : § Liao Min , Vice Minister, Ministry of Finance (MOF), China § Manuela Ferro , Vice President, EAP, WBG § Juergen Voegele , Vice President, Planet, WBG (virtual) § H.E. Ana Pimentel, Vice Minister of Climate Change and Sustainability, Dominican Republic § Sun Shuxian , Vice Minister, Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR), China 9:30-10:35 High-Level Segment – Towards a Livable Planet Two Keynote speeches (25 min each) followed by closing reflection by Juergen Voegele (M); Moderated by the Master of Ceremony, Mara Warwick . Keynote speeches: Dr. Richard Damania , Chief Economist, Planet Vertical, WBG (9:30-9:55), Topic: Reboot Development: The Economics of a Livable Planet Prof. Fu Bojie , Academician, Chinese Academy of Sciences (9:55-10:20), Topic: Ecological restoration for sustainable development in China Closing reflections: § Juergen Voegele (10:20-10:35) 10:35-11:10 Coffee break 11:10-12:20 Thematic Session 1: Ecosystem Restoration in the Context of Climate Change Action Moderated by Dr. Luo Ming , China MNR, framing the session in a global context. (5 min) Keynote Speeches (30 min): § Mr. Giovanni Ruta, Lead Environmental Economist, WBG. Topic: Climate and development: the role of nature. § Prof. Ouyang Zhiyun , Chinese Academy of Sciences. Topic: Harnessing Nature-based Solutions for Climate Change and Biodiversity Conservation in China. Panel Discussion (25 min): Global experience exchange and discussion on ecosystem approach to climate change (4 panelists, 5 minutes each) Moderator: Dr. Luo Ming, MNR § Raúl Jiménez Rosenberg , Head of CONABIO (National Commission for the Knowledge and Use of Biodiversity), Mexico). § Mr. Hedges Tembo, Chief Green Economy Officer and National FP for CIF nature, people, and climate program, Ministry of Green Economy and Environment, Zambia. § Prof. Ouyang Zhiyun , Chinese Academy of Sciences. Topic: Harnessing Nature-based Solutions for Climate Change and Biodiversity Conservation in China. § Ms. Amélie Aubert (TBC) , Regional Director, Agence Francaise de Développement (AFD). 12:20-12:30 Group Photo (All Participants) 12:30-13:45 Lunch Break (International guests check out before afternoon sessions) 13:45-14:45 Thematic Session 2: Ecosystem Restoration and Economic Prosperity Moderated by Julian Lampietti , Program Manager, WBG (TBC), framing the session in a global context. (5 min) Keynote Speeches (30 min): § Prof. Judith L. Fisher, University of Western Australia. Topic: Land Degradation and Restoration. § Mr. Gu Zhixin , Deputy Director General, Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Center. Fireside Chat with Vice Ministers (30 minutes): Global experience exchange (3 panelists, 10 minutes each) Moderator: Mr. Julian Lampietti, WBG § H.E. Ana Pimentel, Vice Minister of Climate Change and Sustainability, Dominican Republic. § H.E. Prof. Elias Eyasu , State Minister of Agriculture, Ethiopia. § H.E. Aliona Rusnac , Secretary of State, Ministry of Environment, Moldova. 14:45-15:15 Coffee break 15:15-16:15 Thematic Session 3: Financing Large-scale Ecosystem Restoration Moderated by Ruijing Lin , Senior Investment Officer, IFC, framing the session in a global context. (5 min) Keynote Speeches (30 min): § Ms. Viola di Canossa , UNDP China Lead Economist. Topic: Biodiversity Finance and BIOFIN initiative. § Mr. Ye Yanfei , Former Senior Inspectorate Advisor, Policy Research Bureau, China’s National Financial Regulatory Administration, Topic: Mobilizing the financial and private sector for nature. Panel Discussion (25 min): global experience exchange and discussion on financing ecosystem restoration (4 panelists, 5 minutes each). Moderator: Ruijing Lin, IFC § Mr. William Mugabo , Head of SPIU at Ministry of Environment, Rwanda. § Mr. Marcus Vinicius Alves , Director of Environmental Regulation, Brazilian Forest Service, Brazil. § Mr. Ye Yanfei , Former Senior Inspectorate Advisor, Policy Research Bureau, China’s National Financial Regulatory Administration § Ms. Huang Dafei , Director, China International Capital Corporation (CICC), China. 16:15– 16:30 Closing Remarks § Julia Fraser (F), Regional Director for Planet, East Asia and Pacific, WBG 17:00 Departure to Beijing Capital Airport § Briefing on the upcoming Study Tour for participants during bus travel to the airport, by Ms. Ma Xueping (Ningxia DNR); Dr. Luo Ming (MNR); Dr. Jin Tong (WBG) Study Tour Agenda Day 1 (Wednesday 18 June)-Dryland Ecosystem Restoration and Green Transition Time Program 08:00-09:30 Departure to Dadenggou, Shitanjing Mining Area, Helan Mountain. (Dawukou District, Shizuishan City) 09:30-10:30 Thematic Site Visit 1: Dadenggou Ecosystem Restoration in the Shitanjing Mining Area of Helan Mountain (a demonstrative project under the Shanshui Initiative) Theme: Ecological Restoration in Helan Mountain Introduction: Liu Hongxia, Deputy Director of the Shizuishan Municipal Bureau of Natural Resources will introduce the ecological protection and restoration and green transformation progress within the Helan Mountain Area. 10:30-11:00 Travel to Dawukou Forest Park from Dadenggou (Distance about 27 kilometers, 30 minutes) 11:00-12:00 Thematic Site Visit 2: Dawukou Forest Park (1 hour) Theme: "Three Norths Shelterbelt Project" and Desertification Control Introduction: Liu Hongxia, Deputy Director of the Shizuishan Municipal Bureau of Natural Resources will introduce the background of Dawukou Forest Park. 12:00-13:00 Lunch (Shizuishan City, Ningxia Fenghua Haotai Hotel) 13:00-14:15 Travel to Zhihuiyuanshi Ecosystem Restoration Area in Yinchuan City (Distance about 65 kilometers, 75 minutes) 14:15-16:30 Thematic Site Visit 3: Zhihuiyuanshi Winery, Zhihuiyuanshi Ecosystem Restoration Area (Zhenbeibao Town, Yinchuan city) Theme: Integrated development of ecological restoration and ecological industry, and realization of the value of ecological products Introduction: Yuan Yuan, General Manager of Zhihuiyuanshi Winery will introduce the background of ecosystem restoration and wine industry development, and the inter-generational story about shifting from a mining site owner to a winery owner. 16:30-17:00 Travel back to Yinchuan (Distance about 22 kilometers, 30 minutes) 18:00 Dinner & Briefing Wrap-up Q&A of the day and brief introduction to the itinerary and overview of the site visit for the next day after dinner in the dinner place (30 minutes). Speakers: Mr. Yang Guofeng, Forestry Engineer and Focal Point at Project Management Office, Forestry and Grassland Administration of Ningxia; representative of Ningxia Department of Natural Resources (DNR) and Ningxia Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Center Day 2 (Thursday 19 June) - Desertification Control and Ecological Protection; Travel to lower reach of Yangtze River Time Program 08:00-09:30 Drive from Yinchuan hotel to the World Bank Desertification Control Project site (Daliumaozi, Linwu City) 09:30-12:00 Thematic Site Visit 4: World Bank Desertification Control Project - Lingwu City Daliumaozi Project Area Theme: "Three Norths Shelterbelt Project", Desertification Control and Regional Development in Arid Areas Introduction: The representative from Baijitan Forest Farm will introduce the background, technical solutions and outcomes of the project. 12:00-13:00 Lunch (Baijitan Research and Education Center) 13:00-14:00 Travel to Yinchuan Hedong International Airport (Leave no later than 13:00) 15:00-17:50 Take flight from Yinchuan to Hangzhou, Zhejiang province 19:00 Brief introduction to the itinerary and overview of the site visit for the next day after dinner (30 minutes). Speakers: Representatives of Zhejiang Department of Natural Resources (DNR) and Zhejiang Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Center Day 3 (Friday 20 June) - Ecological Restoration and Realization of Ecological Products Time Program 08:30-10:00 Departure to Yu Village, Anji County (Huzhou City) (Distance about 80 kilometers, 1.5 hours) 10:00-11:30 Thematic Site Visit 5: Yu Village, Anji County Theme: The birthplace of the concept of "Green water and green mountains are gold and silver mountains", transformation of ecological products in Anji (understory economy and eco-tourism) Introduction: Wang Weimin, Deputy Director, Bureau of the Resource and Planning, Anji Couty 11:30-13:00 Lunch 13:00-14:00 Travel to Xiaogucheng Village, Jingshan Town, Hangzhou city (Distance about 40 kilometers, 60 minutes) 14:00-15:00 Thematic Site Visit 6: Xiaogucheng Village, Jingshan Town Theme: "Thousand-Village Demonstration and Ten-Thousand-Village Improvement Project" and "Future Village" construction, improvement of livable environment in rural area Introduction: Representative of Hangzhou (Yuhang District) Bureau of Resource and Planning 15:00-16:30 Discussion and Q&A session Wrap-up Q&A of the day and interactive discussions with the provincial and local government officials. (Location: Jingshan Tea Culture Park) Proposed officials: § Director Fang from the Yuhang District Bureau of Natural Resources and Planning, § Representatives from the Provincial Department of Natural Resources /Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Center and other local agencies. 17:00-18:00 Travel back to Hangzhou (Distance about 40 kilometers, 60 minutes) 18:00 Dinner Day 4 (Saturday 21 June): Wrap-up Meeting Time Program 09:00-11:30 Wrap-up meeting: Discuss key findings from the entire event and future expectations for the GKC Meeting agenda: 9:00-9:15 Welcome and Framing the Reflection Session § Host, Giovanni Ruta , welcomes participants and delivers the objectives of the reflection session and a quick overview of the study tour (10 minutes). § Share a video of the study tour (5 minutes). 9:15-9:30 Personal Reflection § Participants write down “3 Highlights of the Study Tour” (5 minutes). § Reflection sharing on a voluntary basis (10 minutes). 9:30-10:15 Group Reflection and Sharing § Break into small groups (5 people each) to discuss guiding questions (20 minutes). § Reflection Sharing by Groups (25 minutes). 10:15-11:00 Panel Discussion: Inbound Knowledge to China § Panelists include: o Representatives from each region (e.g. ECA, LAC, MNA, AFE, AFW) and share innovations that their regions bring to the GKC. o Chinese officials share what China wants to learn more about the rest of world through GKC. 11:00-11:15 Open Mic: “Looking Ahead” § Volunteering sharing focused on “what went well”. “What can be improved?”, “What are future topics of interest”. 11:15-11:30 Closing Remarks & Next Steps § Fill in an online survey about the event and stay connected (5 minutes) § Logistics reminder for departure § Closing Remarks, Dr. Luo Ming , MNR § Closing Remarks, Christophe Crepin , WBG Later Participants travel back from Hangzhou Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×