Climate - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Climate Previous 1 … 5 6 7 8 Next Explore the Climate Resilience Toolkit Topic areas: Coastal Flooding Risk Ecosystem Vulnerability Energy Infrastructure Food Resilience Human Health Transportation Tribal Nations Water Resources Food Resilience Data July 25, 2014 By Data.gov admins The U.S. Government and its partners have been collecting data relevant to the vulnerability of the food system to climate change for over a century. Useful datasets on this topic include the Census of Agriculture, the leading source of facts… Continued Launch of Food Resilience Theme July 16, 2014 By Ana Pinheiro Privette To help communities and individuals plan for the risks of drought, floods, and other climate-change-related impacts, the US government is releasing today a collection of datasets containing information relevant to the effects of climate change on the food system.… Continued Infrastructure and Geographic Map Data for Climate-Preparedness July 16, 2014 By Ana Pinheiro Privette To help communities and citizens plan for the risks of coastal flooding and other climate-change-related impacts, the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Defense, the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, and the U.S. Geological Survey have released new non-sensitive datasets containing… Continued NASA Launches Earth Science Challenges with OpenNEX Cloud Data June 24, 2014 By Data.gov admins NASA is launching two challenges to give the public an opportunity to create innovative ways to use data from the agency’s Earth science satellites… Continued NASA Invites Citizens to Collaborate on Coastal Flooding Challenge March 21, 2014 By Ellen Stofan The U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) interactive energy disruption maps combine real-time data feeds from NOAA's National Hurricane Center with more than 20 map layers showing the nation's energy infrastructure and resources. This new tool, available around the clock on the EIA… Continued Welcome to Climate.Data.gov! March 19, 2014 By Ana Pinheiro Privette In this new and pilot-stage of Climate.Data.gov, you will find resources to help companies, communities, and citizens understand and prepare for the impacts of coastal flooding and sea level rise. Over time, you’ll find more datasets, web services, and tools,… Continued What Kind of Climate Data Can I Find? March 19, 2014 By Ana Pinheiro Privette In this emerging climate data resource, you can find datasets and web services, as well as tools, related to coastal flooding and sea level rise. We are featuring key resources to help you get started building data layers and tools… Continued NOAA and NASA Launch Coastal Vulnerability Innovation Challenge March 19, 2014 By Ana Pinheiro Privette Coastal communities are becoming increasingly vulnerable to the risk of damage from coastal inundation. We only have to remember the recent impact of Hurricane Sandy on communities in the northeast to see the potential damage that a single storm can… Continued Release of Infrastructure and Geographic Map Data for Climate-Preparedness March 16, 2014 By Ana Pinheiro Privette To help communities and citizens plan for the risks of coastal flooding and other climate-change-related impacts, the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Defense, the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, and the U.S. Geological Survey are releasing today a collection of non-sensitive… Continued Climate Data in Action March 6, 2014 By Ana Pinheiro Privette These post-Superstorm Sandy maps for New York City and New Jersey and New York states show how the floodplain will change under different scenarios of sea level rise. Surging Seas uses government data to project sea level rise scenarios for… Continued Previous 1 … 5 6 7 8 Next About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov