Female Entrepreneurs Come into their Own in Jamaica --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Female Entrepreneurs Come into their Own in Jamaica March 14, 2016 Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> Between 70-80 per cent of graduates in Jamaica are women. iStock Globally the number of women in management positions has increased over the past 20 years, and today Jamaica boasts the highest proportion of female managers in the world. Originally published by the Jamaica Observer. VALRIE Grant is the name to know in Jamaica. In late November 2015, she was named Commonwealth Women Entrepreneur of the Year in an international award ceremony in Malta. For her, the recognition is “a signal to the world that Jamaica is indeed open for business and that women are increasingly carving out their own niche in business”. Her success is reflection of a larger trend in Jamaica, where almost 60 per cent of managers are women, according to the Women in Business and Management, Gaining Momentum report, which was released by the International Labour Organization. Globally the number of women in management positions has increased over the past 20 years, and today Jamaica boasts the highest proportion of female managers in the world. For Harold Davis, deputy CEO of the state-run Jamaica Business Development Corporation (JBDC), several factors have played a role in this increase. “Women dominate at the tertiary level of the education system,” he explained. “Between 70-80 per cent of graduates are women, even within traditionally male- dominated vocations like engineering and law.” Social barriers to success However, despite the increased numbers, many female entrepreneurs harbour a lingering feeling that silent barriers still exist, despite legislation to secure gender equity. That’s because for entrepreneurs like Lacey Ann Bartley, working in the male-dominated heavy manufacturing industry, legislation can only go so far. Solutions need to challenge the subtle social stereotypes which hold Jamaican women back in business. “My approach is to be twice as good as my male counterparts and keep going while blocking out the noise of public doubt,” she said. “We shouldn’t be content with tokenism.” And it’s a policy which is reaping dividends. Bartley, whose business produces a range of goods from native Jamaican wood, has already been recognised nationally as one of the bold new business owners. But it’s not been plain sailing and, as with so many new businesses, financing remains a challenge, which forced her to bootstrap her way to success. “Getting funding in Jamaica is difficult because of the barrier of collateral and the tedious process of the paperwork. Even with grants you must have in hand enough to match 50 per cent of what you need,” she highlighted. The long-established issue of access to finance for small entrepreneurs in the Caribbean is now being addressed by the Canadian-funded Entrepreneurship Programme for Innovation in the Caribbean (EPIC) managed by the World Bank Group. EPIC specifically recognises the social and economic barriers for women through the Women Innovators Network in the Caribbean, WINC. Giving back through mentorship As well as offering support with credit, WINC is a valuable networking tool and a chance for successful entrepreneurs such as Grant to pay their success forward, and inspire other women in the Caribbean to follow in her footsteps. “It’s about keeping the lines open and feeding the network that leads to unexpected opportunities,” she stated. “I have come full circle as it was through the robust WINC network that I helped to co-create that my initial opportunity and subsequent recognition came,” Through her company GeoTechVision, Grant now operates in Jamaica and Guyana to offer services to 14 countries in the Caribbean. Today Grant feeds these roots through the WINC Acceleration Programme 2015, in her capacity as a facilitator for entrepreneurs in Guyana. However, for Bartley, in the manufacturing industry being a member for such a network is still a long way off. While legislation has opened the doors to equality, significant cultural and social barriers remain, essentially impeding women from doing the same work as men in the factories. “In terms of finding role models of women in manufacturing, that is still pretty tough, and it’s unfortunate. I hope more women step up and follow the examples of powerful figures like Doreen Frankson (former president of the Jamaica Manufacturers’ Association who runs the premier chemical production company on the island),” she surmised. “While equitable and business-friendly laws are important, we cannot legislate change, it must come through education, learning. That is what will yield tangible behaviour change.” Jamaica Latin America and Caribbean Gender Organization of Eastern Caribbean States The Caribbean: Development news, research, data | World Bank Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.