Open Government - Data.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Menu Data Metrics Open Government Contact User Guide User Guide Open Government # Data.gov is the federal government's open data site, and aims to make government more open and accountable. Opening government data increases citizen participation in government, creates opportunities for economic development, and informs decision making in both the private and public sectors. Data.gov implements The OPEN Government Data Act ( Title II of the Foundations for Evidence-Based Policymaking Act of 2018, Public Law 115-435 ). The OPEN Government Data Act makes Data.gov a requirement in statute, rather than a policy. It requires federal agencies to publish their information online as open data, using standardized, machine-readable data formats, with their metadata included in the Data.gov catalog. Data.gov is working with an expanded group of federal agencies to include their datasets in Data.gov as they implement the law. In addition, the law requires that GSA work with the Office of Management and Budget and the Office of Government Information Services to establish an "online repository of tools, best practices, and schema standards to facilitate the adoption of open data practices across the Federal Government." That repository can be found at resources.data.gov . Data.gov was built with open source software. Anyone, especially local, state, and foreign governments are welcome to borrow the code behind Data.gov. Open Data in the United States and Internationally # Numerous states, cities, and counties have launched open data sites. By collaborating with these non-federal data sources, Data.gov is able to include this data in the catalog. Searches on the Data.gov catalog will return relevant datasets from both federal and non-federal sources. Download the full list of current international open data sites: CSV . Download the full list of current open data sites in the United States: CSV . About Open Government Website Policies PERFORMANCE.GOV Twitter Github data.gov An official website of the GSA's Technology Transformation Services About GSA Accessibility statement FOIA requests No FEAR Act data Office of the Inspector General Performance reports Privacy policy Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov