Why is freight transport so expensive in Central America? --> --> Working for a World Free of Poverty Who We Are News FEATURE STORY Why is freight transport so expensive in Central America? February 7, 2013 This page in: English Español Email Print Tweet Share Share --> --> LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> World Bank STORY HIGHLIGHTS Road transportation is the principal means of trading goods within the region Several bottlenecks have been identified, which primarily affect small-scale producer Crime and violence also increase transportation costs In 2010, beef became Nicaragua’s second largest export item, after increased demand from countries like Venezuela, which became the largest importer of Nicaraguan processed beef. Such promising potential, however, has brought to light the domestic challenges to market expansion. A small-scale beef producer in Nicaragua can pay up to twice as much as a large-scale producer before his cattle reaches the consumer. The transportation of animals from the ranch to the slaughterhouse and from the slaughterhouse to market implies costs, wasted time and, above all, a negative impact on product quality. The more time beef spends on the shelf, the less likely it will sell, resulting, indirectly, in less income for the small producer. Transporting freight overland directly impacts on poverty, according to experts. When it works correctly, it generates millions of jobs, representing a significant share of GDP in low and medium income countries, and even results in lower food prices. When it does not, it generates a vicious cycle affecting the profitability and efficiency of economies, generating an upward pressure on prices in comparison to other countries. According to a World Bank report , there are five reasons why transportation is exceedingly expensive in Central America: High fuel prices Security costs Transfer of empty containers Excessive travel times Scarce investment and access to credits (to maintain and renew vehicle fleets) For example, a survey of 250 transport companies revealed that fuel prices can make up between 40% and 60% of variable costs — compared to just 20% in the US and Canada. Only 34% of those surveyed have put in place fuel efficiency practices, which not only help to reduce costs, but also serve to reduce carbon emissions. On the other hand, security represents between 3% and 4% of Central American transportation companies’ costs. “High quality beef and coffee exporters must pay a security car or armed guard to accompany vehicles during transportation,” the study indicates. Meanwhile, security costs have risen by 25% in the past four years and are susceptible to further increases as crime and violence rates grow. The return of empty containers also explains high freight costs. The first part of the trip costs more because it must compensate for an empty return trip. In Guatemala, for example, around 77% of all containers return empty. This problem affects all Central American countries, and both large and small transportation companies. " High quality beef and coffee exporters must pay a security car or armed guard to accompany vehicles during transportation " More Time, More Cost On the border between Costa Rica and Nicaragua, there normally is a long line of trucks waiting their turn to present their paperwork. Furthermore, the parking lot opposite the customs office is full of vehicles waiting to regularize their documentation and continue their journey. Experts point out that “the waiting time on the San Jose-Managua road border crossing at Peñas Blancas — for an empty return — is 24 hours, or around 22% of the total trip duration on average.” This scenario is common to almost all Central American border crossings. While waiting, perishable products such as milk, beef, fruit and vegetables must be kept refrigerated in trucks, resulting not only in a great loss of time, but of fuel as well. The time it takes to travel from one destination to another is not only affected by unpredictable customs procedures, but also by other factors: congestion in and around urban areas, the impossibility of traveling at night due to public safety concerns and poor road infrastructure. At the same time, regional roads are also vulnerable to natural disasters, which put limits on access roads, especially unpaved ones. The report suggests that to lower transportation costs several region-wide solutions must be implemented to harmonize customs systems, invest in roads and continue the fight against crime and violence. Investing in transportation is not the end of the road, but rather the beginning. RELATED WORLD BANK Home - Central America Feature Story: How to Facilitate Central American Agricultural Exports Feature Story: Logistics and Transport: A Long Road to Travel in Central America Feature Story: Central America, Expanding Trade Horizons In Order to Diversify Informe: Transporte por carretera en América Central: cinco explicaciones de por qué el servicio es tan caro EXTERNAL Photo Gallery: Better Infrastructure to accelerate Growth Costa Rica Latin America and Caribbean Transport El Salvador Guatemala Honduras Nicaragua Panama Trade View More + Api Api Newsletters --> View All newsletters » --> --> Welcome You have clicked on a link to a page that is not part of the beta version of the new worldbank.org. Before you leave, we’d love to get your feedback on your experience while you were here. Will you take two minutes to complete a brief survey that will help us to improve our website? Cancel No Thanks Yes, I'll provide feedback x Close Feedback Survey Thank you for agreeing to provide feedback on the new version of worldbank.org; your response will help us to improve our website. --> What was the purpose of your visit to worldbank.org today? Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> Did the layout and navigation of the new site help you locate what you were looking for? Yes No Do you have any other feedback on the new version of our website? (Optional) Do you have any suggestions on improvements to the site functionality? --> If you are willing to be contacted in the future to help us improve our website, please leave your email address below. Which of the following best describes your career field or organization? Student Academic/Professor Government Employee Media Organization Multilateral Organization NGO or Nonprofit Private Sector Firm World Bank Group Other How often do you visit the World Bank website? This is my first time Daily About once a week About once a month Every six months or less often SUBMIT Thank you for participating in this survey! Your feedback is very helpful to us as we work to improve the site functionality on worldbank.org.