Survey: How has the COVID-19 Pandemic Affected Croatian Households? Where We Work Croatia BRIEF October 27, 2021 Survey: How has the COVID-19 Pandemic Affected Croatian Households? Email Print Tweet Share Share LinkedIn Digg 人人网 Stumble Upon Delicious 新浪微博 udhaya --> « » About Findings Methodology Questionnaires About the Survey The coronavirus pandemic has affected every aspect of the lives of the Croatian population. The national lockdown. School closure. Job losses. Rising prices. The two devastating earthquakes—on March 22, 2020 with an epicenter near Zagreb, and on December 29, 2020 with an epicenter near Petrinja—made 2020 even more difficult to cope with. 2021 has brought new hope. The country is seeing a robust economic rebound and improved conditions for workers. In addition, the government is looking to address the main obstacles for stronger and more inclusive growth through the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, approved by the European Union Council in July 2021. But the recovery is not likely to benefit everyone equally. According to a series of World Bank surveys, the pandemic is having a disproportionate impact on the poor and vulnerable people - especially the working poor, women and rural residents. The Croatia Rapid Response Survey aims to monitor and assess the impact of this societal upheaval on the Croatian people’s wellbeing from the beginning of the pandemic to the build-back-better recovery process. It is a nationally representative phone survey of the population that captures rapidly changing situations with a focus on employment, income, and public opinion. Surveys (done in seven rounds) capture aspects of the informal economy that GDP statistics may miss. The findings can inform policy makers and development partners of the evolving effects of the pandemic on different segments of the Croatian population and help with the design of mitigation programs to protect the most vulnerable groups. This makes them a valuable tool during crises to help governments and development partners to focus their limited resources on those in most dire need of assistance. In Croatia, the findings have been publicly presented and discussed in a recorded panel set up, with policy makers, academia and NGOs. These findings aim at informing policy makers and development partners of the evolving effects of the pandemic on different segments of the Croatian population with the objective of helping with the design of mitigation programs to protect the most vulnerable groups. Questions about the survey can be directed to Nga Thi Viet Nguyen . Findings The Croatia survey findings were publicly presented, i nforming policy makers and development partners of the evolving effects of the pandemic on different segments of the Croatian population. The World Bank hosted a lively discussion with representatives from the Government, the NGOs, and academics about how to make the recovery process inclusive and supportive of the poorest and the most vulnerable groups in Croatia. Key messages from the five survey rounds findings are: After a difficult year, 2021 shows a strong recovery in growth and employment: GDP growth is expected to reach 7.6% in 2021, after a negative 8% in 2020. Unemployment is forecasted to decline from 7.5% to 6.6% between 2020 and 2021 But the recovery is uneven. Throughout the pandemic, lower-wage workers have been more likely to stop working. The level of stress about job prospects is higher among women, among people in lower-income brackets and those in rural areas. Low-wage workers are more uncertain of their expected income in 2021. Households’ financial wellbeing is affected through both labor income and inflation. Despite the overall recovery, 15 % of households still reported reduction in income. In addition, rising prices undercut households’ purchasing power. 38 % of households reported difficulties in making ends meet. The situation is worse for poorer households, households with all non-working members, and households headed by women. The outlook for households’ financial recovery relies on how fast we could control the pandemic because a prolonged pandemic will continue to have important implication on the labor market and price levels. COVID-19 vaccine uptake has slowed down since the beginning of the summer and remains well below the EU average. Vaccine uptake is low in poorer areas signaling widening inequality in the recovery process. Rising food and energy prices will continue to hurt the poorest as these items alone take 70% of their budget. The Croatia Rapid Assessment Survey was carried out in 5 rounds: Round 1 in June 2020 estimated the impacts of the first national lock down and school closure. Round 2 in December 2020 captured the early effects of reopening of schools and the economy. Round 3 in March 2021 reflected the wellbeing of the population one year into the pandemic. Round 4 in June 2021 assessed the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines and the economic rebound. Round 5 in September 2021 monitored the spread of the Delta variant of the virus and continuous vaccination efforts. Round 6 in April 2022 assessed whether the economic recovery was inclusive for all Croatians, and examined sentiments toward Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, focusing on its impacts on regional security, prices, and economic growth. Round 7 in June 2023 investigated the impact of high inflation on household finances and how the energy crisis affected households’ use of sustainable energy. Methodology The survey is conducted over the phone with a randomly selected sample of 1,500 households. It is implemented entirely using Computer-Assisted Telephone Interviewing to allow for faster access to the data and dissemination of results. In each survey round, households are asked a comprehensive set of questions about their knowledge and concerns about the pandemic, access to basic needs, employment and income loss, as well as their coping strategies. The sampling frame is based on the 2011 Census by Croatian Bureau of Statistics. The national sample was stratified by region and settlement size (up to 2000 inhabitants; 2001 to 10000 inhabitants; 10001 to 80000 inhabitants; more than 80001 inhabitants). Region County Zagreb Zagrebačka City of Zagreb Northern Croatia Krapinsko-zagorska Varaždinska Koprivničko-križevačka Bjelovarsko-bilogorska Međimurska Slavonia Virovitičko-podravska Požeško-slavonska Brodsko-posavska Osječko-baranjska Vukovarsko-srijemska Lika and Banovina Sisačko-moslavačka Karlovačka Ličko-senjska Istria and Primorje Primorsko-goranska Istarska Dalmatia Zadarska Šibensko-kninska Splitsko-dalmatinska Dubrovačko-neretvanska Croatia Rapid Assessment Survey was carried out in 5 rounds: Round 1 in June 2020 estimated the impacts of the first national lock down and school closure. Round 2 in December 2020 captured the early effects of reopening of schools and the economy. Round 3 in March 2021 reflected the wellbeing of the population one year into the pandemic. Round 4 in June 2021 assessed the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines and the economic rebound. Round 5 in September 2021 monitored the spread of the Delta variant of the virus and continuous vaccination efforts. Round 6 in April 2022 assessed whether the economic recovery was inclusive for all Croatians, and examined sentiments toward Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, focusing on its impacts on regional security, prices, and economic growth. Round 7 in June 2023 investigated the impact of high inflation on household finances and how the energy crisis affected households’ use of sustainable energy. The questionnaire for these survey rounds is designed to monitor trends in subjective well-being, employment, income, knowledge and concerns about the pandemic, access to basic needs, and opinions about government policies. The questionnaire has a flexible structure so that the topics can be adapted to the evolving situation in Croatia. Participation in the survey is voluntary, so refusal and non-response are potential concerns for sampling bias. Therefore, the sample weight is adjusted with a core set of variables including location, gender, education, and assets to benchmark the sample with the official 2019 Croatia – Statistics on Income and Living Conditions. Three reweighting methods are applied – propensity score reweighting, raking, and maximum entropy – to ensure the best match possible. The survey has been applied in many countries in Europe – including Bulgaria, Poland, and Romania – and around the world. Questionnaires Household Phone Survey Questionnaires Questionnaire-Round1 Questionnaire-Round2 Questionnaire-Round3 Questionnaire-Round4 Questionnaire-Round5 Questionnaire-Round6 Questionnaire-Round7 RELATED WORLD BANK Blog - From gloom to hope: Croatia one year into the pandemic Recorded Panel Discussion June 2020: How has the COVID-19 pandemic affected Croatian households? Findings from round 1 survey December 2020: How has the COVID-19 pandemic affected Croatian households? Findings from round 2 survey March 2021: How has the COVID-19 pandemic affected Croatian households? Findings from round 3 survey June 2021: How has the COVID-19 pandemic affected Croatian households? Findings from round 4 survey September 2021: How has the COVID-19 pandemic affected Croatian households? Findings from round 5 survey June 2022: Monitoring the welfare of Croatian population throughout the crises. Findings from round 6 survey October 2023: Monitoring the welfare of Croatian population throughout the crises. Findings from round 7 survey External Accessibility of Social Services in Croatia Welcome Feedback Survey Feedback Survey -->