World Bank Group Launches the Network for Impact in Africa (NIA) Who We Are News This page in: English العربية This page in: English العربية PRESS RELEASE November 12, 2025 World Bank Group Launches the Network for Impact in Africa (NIA) Share more close linkedin digg renren stumbleupon delicious sina WASHINGTON, Nov. 12, 2025 - The World Bank Group (WBG) and four leading African think tanks today jointly launched the Network for Impact in Africa (NIA), a new initiative designed to deepen operational collaboration and accelerate development outcomes across the continent. Its core purpose is twofold: to join forces in sharing practical global and local knowledge when engaging policymakers and to identify actionable, country-specific solutions that can accelerate impact. “The Network for Impact in Africa is part of our broader transformation to build a more connected, inclusive, and impactful World Bank Group Knowledge Bank. We are rethinking how knowledge is created and used — embedding local expertise from the start and amplifying African voices in shaping solutions that drive real results,” said Axel van Trotsenburg , Senior Managing Director, World Bank. NIA brings together African think tanks and the World Bank Group as partners, fostering mutual learning and co-creation of solutions that are grounded in local African realities and informed by applied global knowledge. The initiative aims to amplify regional voices, embed African expertise in policy advice, and strengthen relationships between WBG country teams and local institutions. “NIA strengthens our ability to innovate and learn from each other. With this partnership, we can build lasting capacity and develop approaches that reflect Africa’s diversity and ambition,” said Victor Murinde , Executive Director, African Economic Research Consortium (AERC) and Co-chair of NIA. NIA’s founding members include the African Economic Research Consortium (AERC), Policy Center for the New South (PCNS), African Center for Economic Transformation (ACET), South African Institute of International Affairs (SAIIA), and the World Bank Group. The network is designed to be lean, adaptive, and scalable, with a governance structure that promotes equal partnership and co-management. It will continue to evolve and expand to include new members, ensuring broader representation and deeper impact across Africa. Contacts In Washington: Anna Thompson Quaye atquaye@worldbank.org Manuela Dimuccio mdimuccio@worldbankgroup.org RELATED World Bank in Africa Blogs WHAT'S NEW This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here . ×