Event | Investing in the Global Environment to Deliver Transformational Change —The Role of the Global Environment Facility (GEF)— Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Investing in the Global Environment to Deliver Transformational Change —The Role of the Global Environment Facility (GEF)— Share Overview Severe environmental issues worldwide, such as climate change, loss of natural resources, land degradation, and water pollution, are becoming increasingly critical and significantly impacting Japan's environment and economy. The atmosphere and water circulating around the Earth know no borders. Furthermore, many consumer goods and food products we use daily—including electrical appliances, energy, paper, wood, and clothing—are produced using various natural resources from countries around the world. Abundant natural resources and the cultures built upon them are invaluable assets for each of us and for future generations. This seminar leveraged the visit of Global Environment Facility (GEF) Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chair, Carlos Manuel Rodríguez, visiting Japan. We introduced the GEF's investment activities, which support innovative initiatives through collaboration with various stakeholders, including businesses, investors, local governments, and civil society. These activities aim to transform the root causes of global environmental challenges—such as worsening climate change, loss of natural resources, land degradation, and water pollution—by driving systemic and policy shifts. Agenda: 14:00– Seminar Overview (5 min) Koichi Omori Senior External Affairs Officer, World Bank Tokyo Office 14:05– Opening Remarks (5 min) Tsuyoshi Hyokai Director for Climate Change and Environmental Issues, International Bureau, Ministry of Finance; Member, Global Environment Facility Council 14:10– Investing in the Global Environment to Deliver Transformational Change: The Role of the GEF (20 min) Carlos Manuel Rodríguez CEO and Chair, Global Environment Facility 14:30– Q&A Session (15 min) 14:45 Close session Speaker: Carlos Manuel Rodriguez Global Environment Facility (GEF) CEO and Chairperson Lawyer by profession, politician by choice, and conservationist at heart, Carlos Manuel Rodríguez was elected as CEO and Chairperson of the Global Environment Facility by its governing body, the GEF Council, in June 2020. The former Costa Rican Environment and Energy Minister was a pioneer in the development of Payment for Ecosystem Services initiatives and strategies for forest restoration, ocean conservation, and de-carbonization, and is an internationally recognized expert on environmental policy, multilateral environmental negotiations, and financing for nature conservation. During his three terms as Minister of Environment and Energy, Costa Rica doubled the size of its forests, made its electric sector 100 percent clean and renewable, and consolidated a National Park System that has positioned the Central American country as a prime ecotourism destination. Rodríguez has held various technical and political positions over the past 30 years. In the early 1990s, he worked as Director of Costa Rica’s National Parks Service and is also founder and board member of many environmental NGOs and tropical research institutes. Since the 1992 UN Sustainable Development Summit in Rio, he has participated in all multilateral environmental negotiations, as an expert negotiator in UNFCCC, CBD, and UNCCD, and participated in negotiations for the creation and implementation of the GEF and the Green Climate Fund. After his second tenure as Minister, he was Vice-President for Global Policy at Conservation International, for 12 years, working in 30 tropical countries in Central and South America, Africa, and Southeast Asia. Learn More Presentation Material: GEF at a Glance (PDF) Event Details Date/Time Thursday, September 18, 2025, 2:00 PM – 2:45 PM (Japan Standard Time) Format Hybrid (In-person attendance or online participation via Webex) *A Webex link will be sent to those who register for online participation. Location (For On-site Participation): World Bank Tokyo Office, Tokyo Development Learning Center (TDLC) 14F, Fukoku Seimei Building, 2-2-2 Uchisaiwaicho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Access Languages: Japanese, English (with simultaneous interpretation) Contact Koichi Omori, World Bank Tokyo Office komori@worldbankgroup.org Related: Japan and GEF – Sustainable investment for the future from Japan (Japanese, PDF) Global Environment Facility（GEF） Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×