Event | Mini-Forum: Ultra High-Performance Concrete Application for Roads in Viet Nam Apple Calendar Google Calendar Outlook Calendar Yahoo Calendar Outlook.com Calendar Office 365 Calendar Home News Events Mini-Forum: Ultra High-Performance Concrete Application for Roads in Viet Nam Share Co-organized by the GFDRR Tokyo Disaster Risk Management Hub and the World Bank Viet Nam Transport Team Overview Ultra-High-Performance Concrete (UHPC) is emerging as a transformative material for bridge construction, offering superior mechanical and structural performance, exceptional durability, and sustainability benefits. Compared to conventional reinforced cement concrete, UHPC enables reduced structural dimensions, making it particularly suitable for long-span and specialized bridge applications that leverage its unique properties. UHPC also presents significant potential for bridges designed for climate-resilient due to its superior durability despite higher cost of construction. In pursuit of an innovative, cost-effective, and environmentally friendly approach tailored to local needs, the World Bank carried out a program to pilot the construction of climate resilient bridges using UHPC in rural areas in Viet Nam. The pilot demonstrated an innovative approach to use local raw materials/resources while also leveraging local contractors/manufacturing factory and transportation to project sites for small rural bridges. The pilot demonstrated UHPC as a viable option for an environmentally friendly and economical material for bridges that are resilient to natural hazards. This mini-forum will feature presentations and discussions on the application of UHPC in Viet Nam and beyond. It will provide an excellent opportunity to engage with experts and practitioners from Viet Nam in the areas of design and construction of UHPC. The project was supported by the World Bank and its Japan Program for Mainstreaming Disaster Risk Management in Developing Countries under GFDRR. Program Welcome and Introduction Keiko Saito Sr. Disaster Risk Management Specialist, GFDRR, The World Bank Phuong thi Minh Tran Sr. Transport Specialist, Viet Nam Transport Team, The World Bank The Local Bridge Construction and Road Asset Management Operation in Viet Nam & UHPC Bridge Piloting Chi Kien Nguyen Transport Specialist, Viet Nam Transport Team, The World Bank Phuong thi Minh Tran Sr. Transport Specialist, Viet Nam Transport Team, The World Bank UHPC Application: Thang Long Bridge Deck Repair & Standard Development Thuan Duc Nguyen Deputy Head, Appraisal Department, Department for Roads of Viet Nam Toan Van Pham Deputy Director, Project Management Unit 3 Dr. Viet Ba Tran Vice President and Secretary General, Viet Nam Concrete Association Panel Discussion Q&A Closing Remarks Moderator Shige Sakaki Sr. Transport Specialist, Viet Nam Transport Team, The World Bank Event Details Date/Time 9:00am - 11:30am, Thursday, Oct 30, 2025 (Japan Standard Time) Venue World Bank Tokyo Office Access Format Hybrid Language Japanese and Vietnamese (with simultaneous interpretation) Admission Free Registration To attend, please register online from this webpage. Contact World Bank Tokyo Disaster Risk Management (DRM) Hub drmhubtokyo@worldbank.org Related World Bank Tokyo Disaster Risk Management (DRM) Hub Status message Thank you for requesting an event reminder for email-address. We have just sent you a confirmation. × Error message It looks as though the e-mail address: email-address is already registered for reminders for this event. × Error message Something went wrong × Error message Cannot subscribe with a pending profile status. ×